
Cfie SeconD Dap of 


Cfte CfiirD Dap of September, 


Cfte jFourtft Dap of 

Cfie Jfiftft Dap of September* 

Cfte Stoft Dap of 

Cfie Setientft Dag of September* 

Cfte <Eigf)tJ) Dap of 

Cfte H3intft Dag of September* 

Cfie Centft Dap of September, 


Cfte dEletoentf) Dap of September, 

AT Rome, in the Cemetery of Basilla, on the old 
" Salarian road, the birthday of the holy martyrs 
Protus and Hyacinth, brothers and eunuchs in the 
service of blessed Eugenia, who were arrested, in the 
time of the emperor Gallienus, on the charge of be- 
ing Christians, and urged to offer sacrifice to the 
gods. But as they refused, both were most severely 
scourged, and finally beheaded. At Laodicea, in 
Syria, the martyrdom of the Saints Diodorus, Dio- 
medes, and Didimus. At Leon, in Spain, St. Vin- 
cent, abbot and martyr. In Egypt, the holy bishop 
J'aplmutius, one of those confessors, who, under the 
emperor Galerius Maxiininus, having their right eye 
plucked out and the joint of the left knee cut, were 



280 SEPTEMBER. 

condemned to work in the metal mines. Afterwards, 
under Constantine the Great, he courageously com- 
bated for the Catholic faith against the Arians, and 
at leangth, being adorned with many crowns, rested 
in peace. At Lyons, the demise of St. Patiens, bish- 
op. At Vercelli, St. ^milian, bishop. At Alexan- 
dria, St. Theodora, who having committed a fault 
through imprudence and repenting of it, remained 
unknown in a religious habit, and persevered until 
her death in practices of extraordinary abstinence 
and patience. 



Cfte Ctoelftft Dap of September, 

fTlHE feast of the most holy Name of the Blessed 
Virgin Mary, celebrated by order of the Sover- 
eign Pontiff, Innocent XI., on account of the signal 
victory gained over the Turks, at Vienna in Austria, 
through her protection. At Alexandria, in the time 
of the emperor Maximinus, the birthday of the holy 
martyrs Hieronides, Leontius, Serapion, Selesius, 
Valerian, and Straton, who were drowned in the sea 
for the confession of the name of Christ. In Bithy- 
nia, St. Autonomus, bishop and martyr, who went to 
that country from Italy to avoid the persecution of 
Diocletian. After he had converted many to the 
faith, he was killed at the altar by the furious Gen- 
tiles, whilst celebrating the sacred mysteries, and so 
became the victim of Christ. At Merum, in Phrygia, 



SEPTEMBER. 281 

the holy martyrs Macedonius, Theodulus, and Tatian, 
under Julian the Apostate. After other torments, 
they joyfully consummated their martyrdom by being 
laid on burning gridirons by order of the governor 
Almachius. At Iconium, in Lycaonia, the holy 
bishop Curonotus, who received the crown of mar- 
tyrdom by being beheaded under the governor Peren- 
nius. At Pavia, St. Juventius, bishop, mentioned on 
the 8th of February. He was sent to that city with 
St. Cyrus by blessed Hermagoras, disciple of the 
evangelist St. Mark. They both preached the Gospel 
of Christ there, and being renowned for great virtues 
and miracles, illustrated the neighboring cities by 
divine works. They closed their glorious career in 
peace, invested with the episcopal dignity. At Lyons, 
the decease of St. Sacerdos, bishop. At Verona, St. 
Silvinus, bishop. At Anderlecht, St. Guido, confes- 
sor. 



Cfie Cftirteentf) Dap of 

AT Alexandria, the birthday of blessed Philip, 
" father of the virgin St. Eugenia. Resigning the 
dignity of prefect of Egypt, he obtained the grace 
of baptism. His successor, the prefect Terentius, 
caused him to be pierced through the throat with a 
sword, whilst he was praying. Also, the holy mar- 
tyrs Macrobius and Julian, who suffered under 
Licinius. The same day, St. Ligorius, martyr, who 



282 SEPTEMBER. 

living in the desert, was murdered by the Gentiles 
for the faith of Christ. At Alexandria, St. Eulo- 
gius, a bishop, celebrated for learning and sanctity. 
At Angers, in France, St. Mauritius, a bishop, re- 
nowned for numberless miracles. At Sens, St. 
Amatus, bishop and confessor. The same day, St. 
Venerius, confessor, a man of admirable sanctity, 
who led an eremitical life in the island of Palmaria. 
In the monastery of Remiremont in France, St. 
Amatus, priest and abbot, illustrious for the virtue 
of abstinence and the gift of miracles. 



jFoimeemft Dap of 

fTIHE Exaltation of the Holy Cross, when the em- 
-^ peror Heraclius, after defeating king Chosroes, 
brought it back to Jerusalem from Persia. At 
Rome, in the Appian road, during the persecution 
of Decius, blessed Cornelius, pope and martyr, who, 
after being banished, was scourged with leaded 
whips, and then beheaded with twenty-one others of 
both sexes. On the same day, were condemned to 
capital punishment Cserealis, a soldier, and his wife 
Sallustia, who had been instructed in the faith by 
the same Cornelius. In Africa, in the time of the 
emperors Valerian and Gallienus, St. Cyprian, 
bishop of Carthage, most renowned for holiness and 
learning. It was near the seashore, six miles from 



SEPTEMBER. 283 

the city, that he consummated his martyrdom by 
decapitation, after enduring a most painful exile. 
The festival of the Saints Cornelius and Cyprian is 
kept on the 16th of this month. There suffered also 
in the same place the holy martyrs Crescentian, Vic- 
tor, Kosula, and Generalis. On the Salarian road, 
at Rome, during the persecution of Diocletian, S f . 
Crescentius, the young son of St. Euthymius, who 
ended his life by the sword, under the judge Tur- 
pilius. At Treves, the holy bishop Maternus, a dis- 
ciple of the blessed apostle Peter, who brought co 
the faith of Christ the inhabitants of Tongres, Co- 
logne, Treves, and of the neighboring country. The 
game day, the birthday of St. John Chrysostom, 
bishop of Constantinople, who was sent into exile 
through the conspiracy of his enemies, but was re- 
called by a decree of the Sovereign Pontiff, Inno- 
cent I. He died on the way from the ill-treatment 
he received at the hands of the soldiers who guarded 
him. His feast is celebrated on the 27th of January, 
the day on which his sacred body was taken to Con- 
stantinople by Theodosius the Younger. 



Cfte JFifteemf) Dap of 

fTIHE Octave of the Nativity and the Feast of the 

Seven Dolors of the Blessed Virgin Mary. At 

Rome, on the Nomentan road, the birthday of 



284 SEPTEMBER. 

blessed Nicomedes, priest and martyr. As he said 
to those who would compel him to sacrifice : "I sacri- 
fice only to the Omnipotent God who reigns in 
heaven," he was for a long time scourged with leaded 
whips, and thus went to our Lord. In the diocese 
of Chalons, St. Valerian, martyr, who was suspended 
on high by the governor Priscus, and tortured with 
iron hooks. Remaining immovable in the confession 
of Christ, and continuing joyfully to praise Him, he 
was struck with the sword by order of the same 
magistrate. At Marcianopolis, in Thrace, St. Meli- 
tina, a martyr, in the time of the emperor Antoninus 
and the governor Antiochus. She was twice led to 
the temples of the Gentiles, and as the idols fell to 
the ground each time, she was hanged and torn, and 
finally decapitated. At Adrianople, the holy mar- 
tyrs Maximus, Theodore, and Asclepiodotus, who 
were crowned under the emperor Maximian. Also, 
St. Porphyrius, a comedian, who, in the presence of 
Julian the Apostate, being baptized in jest, and sud- 
denly converted by the power of God, declared him- 
self a Christian. Forthwith, by order of the em- 
peror, he was struck with an axe, and thus crowned 
with martyrdom. The same day, St. Nicetas, a 
Goth, who was burned alive for the Catholic faith, 
by order of king Athanaric. At Cordova, the holy 
martyrs Emilas, deacon, and Jeremias, who ended 
their martyrdom in the persecution of the Arabs by 
being beheaded, after a long detention in prison. 
At Toul, in France, St. Aper, bishop. Also, St. 



SEPTEMBER. 285 

Leobinus, bishop of Chartres. At Lyons, St. Al- 
binus, bishop. The same day, the decease of St. 
Aichard, abbot. In France, St. Eutropia, widow. 



Cfte >fcteent!) Dap of 

rriHE Saints Cornelius and Cyprian, pontiffs and 
- martyrs, whose birthday is the 14th of this 
month. At Chalcedon, the birthday of St. Euphe- 
mia, virgin and martyr, under the emperor Diocle- 
tian and the proconsul Priscus. For faith in our 
Lord she was subjected to tortures, imprisonment, 
blows, the torment of the wheel, fire, the crushing 
weight of stones, the teeth of beasts, scourging with 
rods, the cutting of sharp saws, burning pans, all of 
which she survived. But when she was again ex- 
posed to the beasts in the amphitheatre, praying to 
our Lord to receive her spirit, one of the animals 
having inflicted a bite on her sacred body, whilst the 
rest licked her feet, she yielded her unspotted soul 
to God. At Rome, the holy martyrs Lucia, noble 
matron, and Geminian, who were subjected to most 
grievous afflictions and a long time tortured, by the 
command of the emperor Diocletian. Finally, being 
put to the sword, they obtained the glorious victory 
of martyrdom. Also, at Eome, at a place on the 
Flaminian road, ten miles from the city, the holy 
martyrs Abundius, priest, and Abundantius, dea- 



286 SEPTEMBER. 

con, whom the emperor Diocletian caused to be 
struck with the sword, together with Marcian, an 
illustrious man, and his son John, whom they had 
raised from the dead. At Heraclea, in Thrace, St. 
Sebastiana, martyr, under the emperor Doinitian 
and the governor Sergius. Being brought to the 
faith of Christ by the blessed apostle Paul, she was 
tormented in various ways and finally beheaded. 
At Cordova, the holy martyrs Kogellus and Servid- 
eus, who were decapitated, after their hands and 
feet had been cut off. In Scotland, St. Ninian, 
bishop and confessor. In England, St. Editha, vir- 
gin, daughter of the English king Edgar, who was 
consecrated to God in a monastery from her tender 
years, whence she may be said to have been ignorant 
of the world rather than to have forsaken it. 



Cfie Setienteentfi Dap of 

fin HE commemoration of the Impression of the 
-* Sacred Wounds which St. Francis, founder of 
the Order of Minorites, received, through a wonder- 
ful favor of God, in his hands, feet and side, on 
Mount Alvernia, in Tuscany. At Rome, on the road 
to Tivoli, the birthday of St. Justin, priest and mar- 
tyr, who distinguished himself by a glorious con- 
fession of the faith, during the persecution of Vale- 
rian and Gallienus. He buried the bodies of the 



SEPTEMBER. 287 

blessed pontiff, Xystus, of Lawrence, Hippolytus, 
and many other saints, and finally consummated his 
martyrdom under Claudius. Also, at Home, the 
holy martyrs Narcissus and Crescentio. In Phry- 
gia, St. Ariadna, martyr, under the emperor Adrian. 
In England, the holy martyrs Socrates and Ste- 
phen. At Nevers, the holy martyrs Valerian, Mac- 
rinus, and Gordian. At Autun, under the emperor 
Antoninus and the governor Valerian, St. Flocellus, 
a boy, who, after many sufferings, was torn to pieces 
by wild beasts, and thus won the crown of martyrs. 
At Liege, blessed Lambert, bishop of Maestricht. 
Having, through zeal for religion, rebuked the royal 
family, he was undeservedly put to death by the 
guilty, and thus entered the court of the heavenly 
kingdom, to enjoy it forever. At Saragossa, in 
Spain, St. Peter of Arbues, first inquisitor of the 
faith in the kingdom of Arragon, who received the 
palm of martyrdom by being barbarously massacred 
by apostate Jews, for defending courageously the 
Catholic faith, according to the duties of his office. 
He was canonized by Pius IX. in 1867. The same 
day, St. Agathoclia, servant of an infidel woman, 
who was for a long time subjected by her to blows 
and other afflictions, that she might deny Christ. 
She was finally presented to the judge and cruelly 
lacerated, and as she persisted in confessing the 
faith, they cut off her tongue and threw her into 
the flames. At Cordova, St. Columba, virgin and 
martyr. At Milan, the departure from this world 



288 SEPTEMBER. 

of St. Satyrus, confessor, whose distinguished mer- 
its are mentioned by his brother, St. Ambrose. At 
Rome, in the persecution of Diocletian, St. Theo- 
dora, a matron, who carefully ministered to the 
martyrs. At Bingen, in the diocese of Mayence, St. 
Hildegarde, virgin. 



Cfie (Eis&teemj) Dap of eptem&er, 

AT Osimo, St. Joseph of Cupertino, confessor of 
the Order of the Minorites Conventual, who was 
placed among the Saints by Clement XIII. The 
same day, the birthday of St. Methodius, bishop of 
Olympius in Lycia, and afterwards of Tyre, most 
renowned for eloquence and learning. St. Jerome 
says that he won the martyr's crown at Chalcis, in 
Greece, at the end of the last persecution. In the 
diocese of Vienne, the holy martyr Ferreol, a trib- 
une, who was arrested by order of the impious gov- 
ernor Crispinus, most cruelly scourged, then loaded 
with heavy chains, and cast into a dark dungeon. 
A miracle having broken his bonds, and opened the 
doors of the prison, he made his escape, but being 
taken again by his pursuers, he received the palm 
of martyrdom by being beheaded. Also, the Saints 
Sophia and Irene, martyrs. At Milan, St. Eustor- 
gius, first bishop of that city, highly commended by 
blessed Ambrose. At Gortyna, in Crete, St. Eume- 
nus, bishop and confessor. 



SEPTEMBER. 289 



Cfte jQtneteemj) Dap of 

4 T Puzzoli, in Campania, the holy martyrs Janu- 
^ arius, bishop of Benevento, Festus, his deacon, 
and Desiderius, lector, together with Sosius, deacon 
of the church of Misenum, Proculus, deacon of Puz- 
zoli, Eutychius and Acutius, who were bound and 
imprisoned and then beheaded during the reign of 
Diocletian. The body of St. Januarius was brought 
to Naples, and buried in the church with due honors, 
where even now the blood of the blessed martyr is 
kept in a vial, and when placed close to his head, is 
seen to become liquid and, bubble up as if it were 
just taken from his veins. At Nocera, the birthday 
of the holy martyrs Felix and Constantia, who suf- 
fered under Nero. In Palestine, the holy martyrs 
Peleus, Nilus, and Elias, bishops in Egypt, who were, 
with many others of the clergy, consumed by fire for 
the sake of Christ during the persecution of Diocle- 
tian. The same day, the holy martyrs Trophimus, 
Sabbatius, and Dorymedon, senator, under the em- 
peror Probus. By command of the governor Atti- 
cus, at Antioch, Sabbatius was scourged until he 
expired. Trophimus was sent to the governor Peren- 
nius at Synnada, where he and the senator Doryme- 
don consummated their martyrdom by decapitation, 
after enduring many torments. At Cordova, in the 
Arabian persecution, St. Pomposa, virgin and mar- 
tyr. At Canterbury, the holy bishop Theodore, who 

19 



290 SEPTEMBER. 

was sent to England by pope Vitalian, and was 
renowned for learning and holiness. At Tours, St. 
Eustochius, bishop, a man of great virtue. In the 
diocese of Langres, St. Sequanus, priest and con- 
fessor. At Barcelona, in Spain, blessed Mary de 
Cervellione, virgin, of the Order of Our Lady of 
Ransom. She is commonly called Mary of Help on 
account of the prompt assistance she renders to 
those who invoke her. 



Cfte CtoenttetJ) Dap of September* 



nPHE vigil of St. Matthew, apostle and evangelist 
-* At Rome, the holy martyrs Eustachius, and Theo- 
pistes, his wife, with their two sons, Agapitus and 
Theopistus. Under the emperor Adrian, they were 
condemned to be cast to the beasts, but through the 
power of God, being uninjured by them, they were 
shut up in a burning brazen ox, and thus terminated 
their martyrdom. At Cyzicum, on the sea of Mar- 
mora, the birthday of the holy martyrs Pausta, 
virgin, and Evilasius, in the time of the emperor 
Maximian. Fausta had her head shaved to shame 
her, and was hanged up and tortured by Evilasius, 
then a Pagan priest ; but when he wished to have her 
body cut in two, the executioners could not inflict 
any injury on her. Amazed at this prodigy, Evila- 
sius believed in Christ; and whilst he was cruelly 



SEPTEMBER. 291 

tortured by order of the emperor, Fausta had her 
head bored through, and her whole body pierced 
with nails. She was then laid on a burning pan, 
and being called by a celestial voice, went in com- 
pany with Evilasius to enjoy the blessedness of 
heaven. In Phrygia, the holy martyrs Denis and 
Privatus. Also, St. Priscus, martyr, who, after 
having had his body pierced all over with daggers, 
was beheaded. At Pergen, in Pamphylia, the Saints 
Theodore, his mother Philippa, and their fellow mar- 
tyrs, under the emperor Antoninus. At Carthage, 
St. Candida, virgin and martyr; who, having all her 
body lacerated with whips, was crowned with mar- 
tyrdom, under the emperor Maximian. Also, the 
holy martyr Susanna, daughter of Arthemius, a 
Pagan priest, and Martha. The same day, pope St. 
Agapitus, whose sanctity is attested by blessed 
Gregory the Great. At Milan, St. Clicerius, bishop 
and confessor. 



Cfje Ctoemp*ftr0t Dap of 

FTRHE birthday of St. Matthew, apostle and evan- 
- gelist, who suffered martyrdom in Ethiopia, 
while engaged in preaching. The Gospel written 
by him in Hebrew was, by his own revelation, found 
in the time of the emperor Zeno, together with the 
relics of the blessed apostle Barnabas. In the land 



292 SEPTEMBER. 

of Saar, the holy prophet Jonas, who was buried in 
Geth. At Rome, St. Pamphilus, martyr. At twenty 
miles from Eome, on the Claudian way, the martyr- 
dom of St. Alexander, bishop, in the time of the em- 
peror Antoninus. For the faith of Christ he was 
loaded with fetters scourged, tortured, burned with 
torches, torn with iron hooks, exposed to the beasts 
and cast into the flames, but having overcome all 
these torments, he was finally beheaded, and so at- 
tained the glory of eternal life. His body was after- 
wards carried into the city by the blessed pope Dam- 
asus, on the 26th of November, on which day his 
feast is to be celebrated by order of the same Pon- 
tiff. In Phoenicia, St. Eusebius, martyr, who, of his 
own accord, went to the prefect, and declaring him- 
self a Christian, was subjected by him to many tor- 
ments, and finally beheaded. In Cyprus, St. Isacius, 
bishop and martyr. In the same place, St. Meletius, 
bishop and confessor. In Ethiopia, St. Iphigenia, 
virgin, who being baptized and consecrated to God 
by the blessed apostle Matthew, ended her holy life 
in peace. 



C6e Ctoemp*seconD Dap of 

AT Valencia, in Spain, St. Thomas, of Villanova, 
^ archbishop and confessor, whose birthday is the 
8th of September. At St. Maurice, near Sion, in 
Switzerland, the birthday of the holy Theban mar- 



SEPTEMBER. 293 

tyrs Maurice, Exuperius, Candidus, Victor, Innocent, 
and Yitalis, with their companions of the same le- 
gion, whose martyrdom for the faith, in the time of 
Maximian, filled the world with the glory of their 
sufferings. At Eome, the martyrdom of the holy 
virgins and martyrs Digna and Emerita, under Vale- 
rian and Gallienus. Their relics are kept in the 
church of St. Marcellus. At Arpajon, near Paris, 
St. Jonas, priest and martyr, who went to France 
with St. Denis, and after being scourged by order of 
the prefect Julian, ended his martyrdom by the 
sword. At Ratisbon, in Bavaria, St. Emmeramus, 
bishop and martyr, who, to deliver others, endured 
patiently a most cruel death for the sake of our Lord. 
At Antinoopolis, in Egypt, the holy martyrs Irais, 
an Alexandrian virgin, and her companions. Hav- 
ing gone out to draw water at a fountain near by, 
aand seeing a boat loaded with Christian confessors, 
she immediately left her vessel and joined them. 
Being conducted to the city with them, after many 
torments, she was the first to have her head struck 
off; and after her, priests, deacons, virgins, and all 
others underwent the same kind of death. At 
Meaux, blessed Sanctinus, bishop, disciple of St. 
Denis, the Areopagite, who, being consecrated by 
him bishop of that city, was the first to preach the 
Gospel there. In the territory of Coutances, St. 
Lauto, bishop. In Poitou, the holy priest Floren- 
tius. In the territory of Bourges, St. Sylvanus, con- 
fessor. At Laon, St. Salaberga, abbess. 



294 SEPTEMBER. 



Cfte CtoentHtwO Dag of September, 

A T Rome, St. Linus, pope and martyr, who governed 
** the Roman church next after the blessed apostle 
Peter. He was crowned with martyrdom, and buried 
on the Vatican hill beside the same apostle. At Ico- 
nium, in Lycaonia, St. Thecla, virgin and martyr, 
who was converted to the faith by the apostle St. 
Paul. Under the emperor Nero, she was victorious 
over the flames and the beasts to which she was ex- 
posed for the faith of Christ, and after many com- 
bats endured for the instruction of others, she went 
to Seleucia, where she ended her days in peace. Her 
memory has been eulogized by the Holy Fathers. In 
Campania, the commemoration of blessed Sosius, dea- 
con of the church of Misenum. The holy bishop 
Januarius, seeing a flame arise from his head as he 
was reading the Gospel in the church, foretold that 
he would be a martyr; and not many days after, 
when he was thirty years of age, he and the holy 
bishop suffered martyrdom by decapitation. In 
Africa, the holy martyrs Andrew, John, Peter, and 
Anthony. In the diocese of Coutances, St. Paternus, 
bishop and martyr. At Ancona, St. C.onstantius, 
sacristan of the Church, renowned for the gift of 
miracles. In Spain, the holy women Xantippa and 
Polyxena, who were disciples of the Apostles. 



SEPTEMBER. 295 



Cfte CtoentHourtft Dap of 

fT)HE feast of our Lady of Ransom. At Autun, 
the birthday of the holy martyrs, Andochius, 
priest, Thyrsus, deacon, and Felix, who were sent 
from the East by blessed Polycarp, bishop of Smyr- 
na, to preach in Gaul, where they were most severely 
scourged, hanged up a whole day by the hands, and 
cast into the fire. Remaining uninjured, they had 
their necks broken with heavy bars, and thus won a 
most glorious crown. In Egypt, the holy martyrs 
Paphnutius and his companions. Whilst leading a 
solitary life, St. Paphnutius heard that many Chris- 
tians were kept in bonds, and, moved by the spirit of 
God, he voluntarily offered himself to the prefect, 
and freely confessed the Christian faith. By him he 
was bound with iron chains, and a long time tortured 
on the rack. Then, being sent with many others to 
Diocletian, he was fastened by his order to a palm 
tree, and the rest were struck with the sword. At 
Chalcedon, forty-nine holy martyrs, who, after the 
martyrdom of St. Euphemia, under the emperor Dio- 
cletian, were condemned to be devoured by the beasts, 
but being miraculously delivered, were finally struck 
with the sword, and went to heaven. In Hungary, 
St. Gerard, bishop and martyr, called the Apostle of 
the Hungarians. He belonged to the nobility of 
Venice, and was the first to shed upon his country 
the glory of martyrdom. At Clermont, in Auvergne, 



296 SEPTEMBER. 

the departure out of this life of St. Rusticus, bishop 
and confessor. In the diocese of Beauvais, St. Gere- 
marus, abbot. 



Cfie Ctoempsftftf) Dap of 

4 T Emmaus, the birthday of blessed Cleophas, dis- 
ciple of Christ. It is related that he was killed 
by the Jews, for the confession of our Lord, in the 
same house in which he had entertained Him, and 
where he was honorably buried. At Rome, under 
the emperor Antoninus, St. Herculanus, soldier and 
martyr, who, being converted to Christ by the 
miracles wrought during the martyrdom of the, 
blessed bishop Alexander, was put to the sword, after 
enduring many torments. At Amiens, in France, in 
the persecution of Diocletian, blessed Firmin, bishop. 
Under the governor Rictiovarus, after various tor- 
ments, he suffered martyrdom by being beheaded. 
At Damascus, the holy martyr Paul, Tata, his wife, 
and Sabinian, Maximus, Rufus, and Eugenius, their 
sons. Accused of professing the Christian religion, 
they were scourged, and tortured in other ways, until 
they gave up their souls to God. In Asia, the holy 
martyrs Bardomian, Eucarpus, and twenty-six 
others. The same day, St. Anathalon, bishop, who 
was a disciple of the blessed apostle Barnabas, and 
succeeded him in the See of Milan. At Lyons, the 



SEPTEMBER. 297 

decease of St. Lupus, at one time an anchoret, but 
later a bishop. At Auxerre, St. Anacharius, bishop 
and confessor. At Blois, St. Solemnius, bishop of 
Chartres, renowned for miracles. The same day, St. 
Principius, bishop of Soissons, brother of the blessed 
bishop Remigius. At Anagni, the holy virgins Aure- 
lia and Neomisia. At San Severino, the decease of 
St. Pacificus of St. Severin, confessor, of the Order 
of the Reformed Minorites of the Observance of St. 
Francis, illustrious by his extraordinary patience 
and love of solitude. He was placed in the calendar 
of saints by pope Gregory XVI. 



Cfte Ctoemp*0ttj) Dap of 

A T Nicomedia, the birthday of the holy martyrs 
^ Cyprian, and Justina, virgin. Under the em- 
peror Diocletian and the governor Eutholmius. 
Justina suffered much for the faith of Christ and 
converted Cyprian, who, while a magician, endeav- 
ored to bring her under the influence of his magical 
practices. She afterwards suffered martyrdom with 
him. Their bodies being exposed to the beasts, were 
taken away in the night by some Christian sailors, 
and carried to Rome. They were subsequently taken 
into the Constantinian basilica, and deposited near 
the baptistery. At Rome, the holy martyr Callistra- 
tus, and forty-nine other soldiers, who endured mar- 



298 SEPTEMBER. 

tyrdorn together, in the persecution of Diocletian. 
The companions of Callistratus were converted to 
Christ on seeing him miraculously delivered from 
drowning in the sea, where he had been thrown 
sewed up in a bag. Also, at Rome, pope St. Euse- 
bius. At Bologna, St. Eusebius, bishop and con- 
fessor. At Brescia, St. Vigilius, bishop. At Albano, 
St. Senator. In the territory of Frascati, the blessed 
abbot Mlus, founder of the monastery of Crypta- 
Ferrata, a man of eminent sanctity. At Citta-di- 
Castello, St. Amantius, a priest distinguished for 
the gift of miracles. 



Cfte Ctoemg*0etient& Dap of 

A T 2Egea, during the persecution of Diocletian, 
-^ the birthday of the holy martyrs Cosmas and 
Damian, brothers. After miraculously overcoming 
many torments from bonds, imprisonment, fire, cruci- 
fixion, stoning, arrows, and from being cast into the 
sea, they received capital punishment. With them 
are said to have also suffered three of their brothers, 
Anthimus, Leontius, and Euprepius. At Koine, St. 
Epicharis, wife of a senator, who, in the same perse- 
cution, was scourged with leaded whips, and struck 
with the sword. At Todi, the holy martyrs Fiden- 
tius and Terence, under the same Diocletian. At 
Cordova, the holy martyrs Adulphus and John, 



SEPTEMBER. 299 

brothers, who won the martyr's crown in the Ara- 
bian persecution. At Sion, in Switzerland, St. 
Florentinus, martyr, who was put to the sword with 
blessed Hilary, after his tongue had been cut out. 
At Byblos, in Phoenicia, St. Mark, bishop, who is 
also called John by blessed Luke. At Milan, the 
holy bishop Caius, a disciple of the blessed apostle 
Barnabas, who passed calmly to rest after suffering 
severely in the persecution of Nero. At Ravenna, 
St. Aderitus, bishop and confessor. At Paris, St. 
Vincent de Paul, priest, and founder of the Congre- 
gation of the Mission and of the Daughters of 
Charity, an apostolic man and a father to the poor. 
His feast is celebrated on the 19th of July. In the 
same city, St. Eleazar, count. In Hainaut, St. Hil- 
trude, virgin. 



Cfte Ctoentp*eigJ)t!) Dap of September* 

TN Bohemia, St. Wenceslas, duke of Bohemia and 
* martyr, renowned for holiness and miracles. 
Being murdered in his brother's house, he went 
triumphantly to heaven. At Rome, St. Privatus, 
martyr, who was cured of ulcers by the blessed pope 
Callistus. For the faith of Christ he was scourged 
to death with leaded whips, in the time of the em- 
peror Alexander. In the same place, St. Stacteus, 
martyr. In Africa, the Saints Martial, Lawrence, 



300 SEPTEMBER. 

and twenty other martyrs. At Antioch, in Pisidia, 
the holy martyrs Mark, shepherd, Alphius, Alexan- 
der, and Zosimus, his brothers, Nicon, Neon Heli- 
odorus, and thirty soldiers, who were converted to 
Christ on seeing the miracles of blessed Mark, and 
were crowned with martyrdom in different places 
and in various manners. The same day, the martyr- 
dom of St. Maximus, under the emperor Decius. At 
Toulouse, St. Exuperius, bishop and confessor. St. 
Jerome bears to this blessed man a memorable testi- 
mony, relating how severe he was towards himself 
and how liberal towards others. At Genoa, St. Solo- 
mon, bishop and confessor. At Brescia, St. Silvinus, 
bishop. The same day, the holy virgin Eustochium, 
daughter of blessed Paula, who was brought up at 
the manger of our Lord with other virgins, and be- 
ing celebrated for merits, went to our Lord. In 
Germany, St. Lioba, virgin, renowned for miracles. 



C6e Ctoemg*nitttf) Dap of September, 

AN Mount Gargano, the commemoration of the 
" blessed archangel Michael. This festival is 
kept in memory of the day, when under his invo- 
cation, was consecrated a church, unpretending in 
its exterior, but endowed with virtue celestial. 
In Thrace, the birthday of the holy martyrs Euty- 
chius, Plautus, and Heracleas. In Persia, under 



SEPTEMBER. 301 

king Sapor, the holy martyr Gudelia. After hav- 
ing converted many to the faith, and refused to 
adore the sun and fire, she was subjected to numer- 
ous torments. Then having the skin torn off her 
head, and being fastened to a post, she deserved 
an eternal triumph. In the same country, the holy 
martyrs Dadas, a blood relation of king Sapor, 
Casdoa, his wife, and Gabdelas, his son. After be- 
ing deprived of their dignities, and subjected to vari- 
ous torments, they were for a long time imprisoned 
and finally put to the sword. In Armenia, the holy 
virgins, Ripsimus and her companions, martyrs, un- 
der king Tiridates. At Auxerre, St. Fraternus, 
bishop and martyr. At Pontecorvo, near Aquino, St. 
Grimoaldus, priest and confessor. In Palestine, St. 
Quiriacus, anchoret. 



C&e Cftttttetj) Dap of September* 

TN Bethlehem of Juda, the decease of St. Jerome, 
priest and Doctor of the Church, who, excelling 
in all kinds of learning, imitated the life of the most 
approved monks, and disposed of many monstrous 
heresies with the sword of his doctrine. Having at 
length reached a very advanced age, he rested in 
peace, and was buried near the manger of our Lord. 
His body was afterwards conveyed to Rome, and 
deposited in the basilica of St. Mary the Greater. 



302 SEPTEMBER. 

The same day, the holy martyr Leopardus, of the 
household of Julian the Apostate. He was beheaded 
at Rome, and his body was subsequently taken to 
Aix-la-Chapelle. At Soleure, in Switzerland, in the 
time of the emperor Maximian, the passion of the 
holy martyrs Victor and Ursus, of the glorius Theban 
legion, who were subjected to horrid tortures; but a 
heavenly light shining over them, and causing the 
executioners to fall to the ground, they were de- 
livered. Being then cast into the fire without sus- 
taining any injury, they finally perished by the 
sword. At Piacenza, the holy martyr Antoninus, 
soldier of the same legion. The same day, St. 
Gregory, bishop of Greater Armenia, who after many 
sufferings under Diocletian, rested in peace. At 
Canterbury, in England, St. Honorius, bishop and 
confessor. At Rome, the birthday of St. Francis 
Borgia, of the Society of Jesus. His feast is cele- 
brated on the 10th of October. In the same city, 
St. Sophia, widow, mother of the holy virgins Faith, 
Hope, and Charity. 




