AT ROME, St. Juventius, martyr.&mdash;At Caesarea, in Palestine, blessed Pamphilus, priest
and martyr, a man of remarkable sanctity
and learning, and great charity to the poor.
In the persecution of Galerius Maximian, he was
tortured for the faith of Christ, under the governor
Urbanus, and thrown into prison; then, being again
subjected to torments under Firmilian, he consummated his martyrdom with others. With them suffered also Valens, deacon, and Paul, and nine others,
whose commemoration occurs on other days.&mdash;At
Autun, the Saints Reverian, bishop, and Paul, priest.
with ten others, who were crowned with martyrdom
under the emperor Aurelian.&mdash;In Cappadocia, in
the time of the emperor Alexander and the prefect
Simplicius, the holy martyr Thespesius, who, after
undergoing many torments, was beheaded.&mdash;In
Egypt, under the emperor Diocletian, the holy martyrs Ischyrion, military officer, and five other soldiers, who were put to death in different manners
for the faith of Christ.&mdash;Also, St. Firmus, martyr,
who was scourged most severely, struck with stones,
and finally decapitated during the persecution of
Maximian.&mdash;At Perugia, the holy martyrs Felinus
and Gratinian, soldiers under Decius, who were
variously tortured, and thus by a glorious death
won the palm of martyrdom.&mdash;At Bologna, St. Proculus, martyr, who suffered under the emperor Maximian.&mdash;At Amelia, in the reign of Diocletian, St.
Secundus, martyr, who consummated his martyrdom
by being thrown into the Tiber.&mdash;At Gitta-di-Castello, in Umbria, St. Orescentian, a Roman soldier,
crowned with martyrdom under the same emperor.&mdash;
In Umbria, St. Fortunatus, a priest renowned for
virtues and miracles.&mdash;In the monastery of Lerins,
the abbot St. Caprasius.&mdash;At Treves, St. Simeon,
monk, who was added to the number of the Saints
by pope Benedict IX.&mdash;At Burgos, in Spain, in the
monastery of Onia, St. Eneco, Benedictine abbot,
illustrious by his sanctity and miracles.

