THE holy bishops Cyril and Methodius, who are
mentioned on the 9th of March.&mdash;At Rome, the
holy martyrs Claudius, notary, Nicostratus, assistant prefect, Castorius, Victorinus, and Symphorian,
who were brought to the faith of Christ by St. Sebastian, and baptized by the blessed priest Polycarp.
Whilst they were engaged in searching for the bodies
of the holy martyrs, the judge Fabian had them arrested, and for ten days he tried by threats and
caresses to shake their constancy, but being utterly
unable to succeed, he ordered them to be thrice tortured, and then percipitated into the sea.&mdash;At Durazzo, in Macedonia, the holy martyrs Peregrinus,
Lucian, Pompeius, Hesychius, Papius, Saturninus,
and Germanus, natives of Italy. In the persecution
of Trajan, they too-k refuge in the town of Durazzo,
where seeing the saintly bishop Astius hanging on a
cross for the faith of Christ, they publicly declared
themselves to be Christians, when, by order of the
governor, they were arrested and cast into the sea.&mdash;
At Perugia, blessed Benedict XI., a native of Treviso of the Order of Preachers, who in the brief
space of his pontificate, greatly promoted the peace
of the Church, the restoration of discipline and the
spread. of religion.&mdash;At Alexandria, the birthday of
St. Pantaenus, an apostolic man, filled with wisdom.
He had such an affection and love for the word of
God, and was so inflamed with the ardor of faith
and devotion, that he set out to preach the gospel of
Christ to the Gentiles inhabiting the farthest recesses of the East. At length returning to Alexandria, he rested in peace, under Antoninus Caracalla.
&mdash;At Brescia, St. Apollonius, bishop and confessor.&mdash;In Saxony, St. Willibald, first bishop of Eichstadt, who labored with St. Boniface in preaching
the Gospel, and converted many nations to Christ.&mdash;
At Clermont, in Auvergne, St. Illidius, bishop.&mdash;At
Urgel, in Spain, St. Odo, bishop.&mdash;In England, St.
Hedda, bishop of the West-Saxons.&mdash;At Gray, in
Burgundy, blessed Peter Fourier, Canon Regular of
the most holy Saviour, renowned for virtues and
miracles.&mdash;In England, St. Edelburga, virgin, daughter of an English king.

