THE feast of St. Camillus de Lellis, confessor,
founder of the Clerks Regular ministering to the
sick, whose birthday is the 14th of July. Leo XIII.
declared him Celestial Patron of hospitals and the
infirm.&mdash;At Tivoli, in the time of the emperor Adrian, St. Symphorosa, wife of the martyr St. Getulius, with her seven sons, Crescens, Julian, Nemesius,
Primitivus, Justinus, Stacteus, and Eugenius. Their
mother, because of her invincible constancy, was
first buffeted a long time, then suspended by her
hair, and lastly thrown into the river with a stone
tied to her body. Her sons had their limbs distended by pulleys and bound to stakes, and terminated their martyrdom by different kinds of death.
The bodies were subsequently taken to Rome, and
were found in the sacristy of St. Angelo in Piscina,
under the Sovereign Pontiff, Pius IV.&mdash;At Carthage,
St. Gundenes, virgin. By order of the proconsul
Rufinus, she was four different times stretched on
the rack for the faith of Christ, horribly lacerated
with iron hooks, confined for a long time in a filthy
dungeon, and finally put to the sword.&mdash;At Dorostorum, in Mysia, in the time of Julian the Apostate
and the governor Capitolinus, St. Emilian, martyr,
who was cast into a furnace, and thus received the
palm of martyrdom.&mdash;At Utrecht, St. Frederick,
bishop and martyr.&mdash;In Spanish Galicia, St. Marina, virgin and martyr.&mdash;At Milan, in the reign of
Maximian, the holy bishop Maternus. For the faith
of Christ and the church entrusted to him, he was
thrown into prison and often scourged. Finally he
went to his rest in the Lord with a great renown for
his repeated confession of the faith.&mdash;At Brescia,
the birthday of St. Philastrius, bishop of that city,
who in speech and writing combated heretics, especially the Arians, from whom he suffered much.
Finally, he died in peace, renowned for miracles.&mdash;At Metz, in France, St. Arnulf, a bishop illustrious
for holiness and the gift of miracles. He chose an
eremitical life, and ended his blessed career in peace.
&mdash;At Segni, St. Bruno, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At
Forlimpopoli, in Emilia, St. Ruffillus, bishop of that
city.

