AT Rome, St. Julius, senator and martyr, who
was delivered up to the judge Vitellius, and by
him thrown into prison. By order of the emperor
Commodus, he was beaten with rods until be expired. His body was buried in the cemetery of
Calepodius on the Aurelian road.&mdash;In Cilicia, the
birthday of St. Andrew, tribune, and his military
companions, who were converted to Christianity
through a miraculous victory they had gained over
the Persians. Being accused on this account, they
were massacred in the defiles of Mount Taurus by
the army of the governor Seleucus, under the emperor Maximian.&mdash;In Palestine, St. Timothy, a
martyr, in the persecution of Diocletian, under the
governor Urbanus. After overcoming many torments, he was consumed with a slow fire.&mdash;In the
same country suffered also Thecla and Agapius.
The former being exposed to the beasts, was torn
to pieces by their teeth, and went to her spouse;
but Agapius, after enduring many torments, was
reserved for greater combats.&mdash;At Anagni, St. Magnus, bishop and martyr, who was put to death in
the persecution of Decius.&mdash;At the castle of Brignoles, in Provence, the demise of St. Louis, bishop
of Toulouse, of the Order of Minorites, renowned for
holiness of life and miracles. His body was taken
thence to Marseilles, and buried with due honors in
the church of the Friars Minor.&mdash;In the neighborhood of Sisteron, in France, blessed Donatus, priest
and confessor. Being from his very infancy endowed with the grace of God in an extraordinary
manner, he lived the life of an anchoret for many
years, and after having been renowned for glorious
miracles, went to Christ.&mdash;In the territory of
Bourges, St. Marian, confessor.&mdash;At Mantua, St.
Rufinus, confessor.&mdash;At Rome, blessed Urban II.,
pope, who followed in the footsteps of St. Gregory
VII., in his zealfor learning and religion, and fired
the crusaders with enthusiasm for the recovery of
the holy places in Palestine from the power of the
infidels. The veneration paid to him from time immemorial Pope Leo XIII. approved and confirmed.

