THE Circumcision of our Lord Jesus Christ, 
and the Octave of His Nativity.&mdash;At Rome, 
St. Almachius, martyr, who, by the command of Alipius, governor of the city, was 
killed by the gladiators for saying, "Today is the 
Octave of our Lord's birth; put an end to the 
worship of idols, and abstain from unclean sacrifices.&mdash;In the same city, on the Appian way, the 
crowning with martyrdom of thirty holy soldiers, 
under the emperor Diocletian.&mdash;Also at Rome, 
under the emperor Alexander, St. Martina, virgin, 
who endured various kinds of torments, and being 
beheaded, received the palm of martyrdom. Her 
feast is kept on the 30th of this month.&mdash;At Spoleto, 
in the time of the emperor Antoninus, St. 
Concordius, priest and martyr, who was beaten with 
clubs, and then put to the torture. After a long 
confinement in prison, where he was visited by an 
angel, he lost his life by the sword.&mdash;The same day, 
St. Magnus, martyr.&mdash;At Caesarea, in Cappadocia, 
the demise of St. Basil, bishop, whose festival is 
kept on the 14th of June, the date of his consecration as bishop.&mdash;In Africa, St. Fulgentius, bishop of 
Buspoe, who suffered much from the Arians during 
the persecution of the Vandals, for holding the 
Catholic faith and teaching its excellent doctrine. 
After being banished to Sardinia, he was permitted 
to return to his diocese, where he ended his life by 
a holy death, leaving a reputation for sanctity and 
eloquence.&mdash;At Chieti, in Abruzzo, the birthday of 
St. Justin, bishop of that city, illustrious for holiness of life and miracles.&mdash;In the diocese of Lyons, 
in the monastery of St. Claude, St. Eugendus, abbot, 
whose life was eminent for virtues and miracles. 
&mdash;At Souvigny, St. Odilo, abbot of Cluny, who was the 
first to prescribe that the commemoration of all the 
faithful departed should be made in his monasteries the day after the feast of All Saints. This 
practice was afterwards received and approved by 
the universal Church.&mdash;In Tuscany, on Mount Senario, blessed Bonfilius, confessor, one of the seven 
founders of the Order of the Servites of the blessed 
Virgin Mary, who, herself, suddenly called her devout servant to heaven.&mdash;At Alexandria, the departure from this world of St. Euphrosyna, virgin, 
who was renowned in her monastery for the virtue 
of abstinence, and the gift of miracles.
