ST. ANTONINUS, confessor and archbishop of
Florence, whose birthday is the 2d of May.&mdash;At
Rome, on the Latin road, the birthday of the holy
martyrs Gordian and Epimachus. In the time of
Julian the Apostate, the former was a long time
scourged and finally decapitated for confessing the
name of Christ. He was buried at night by the
Christians, in a crypt to which, shortly before, the
remains of the blessed martyr Epimachus had been
translated from Alexandria, where he had been martyred for the faith of Christ.&mdash;In the land of Hus,
the holy prophet Job, a man of wonderful patience.
&mdash;At Rome, the blessed priest and martyr Calepodius, who was killed with the sword, by order of the
emperor Alexander. His body was dragged through
the city and thrown into the Tiber. It was afterwards found and buried by Pope Callistus. The
consul Palmatius was also beheaded with his wife,
his sons, and forty-two of both sexes belonging to
his household; likewise, the senator Simplicius with
his wife, and sixty-eight of his house; Felix also
with his wife Blanda. The heads of all these martyrs were exposed over different gates of the city,
to terrify the Christians.&mdash;Also, at Rome, on the ,
Latin way, the birthday of the holy martyrs Quartus A
and Quinctus, whose bodies were translated to
Capua.&mdash;At Lentini, in Sicily, the holy martyrs
Alphius, Philadelpus, and Cyrinus.&mdash;At Smyrna,
St. Dioscorides, martyr.&mdash;At Bologna, blessed Nicholas Albergati, a Carthusian monk, bishop of that
city, and Cardinal of the holy Roman Church, celebrated for his holiness and Legations Apostolic.
His body was buried at Florence, in the monastery
of the Carthusians.&mdash;At Taranto, St. Cataldus, a
bishop renowned for miracles.&mdash;At Milan, the finding
of the bodies of the holy martyrs Nazarius and Celsus. The blessed bishop Ambrose found the body of
St. Nazarius covered with blood still fresh, which
he translated to the basilica of the Apostles, together with the body of the blessed boy Celsus, whom
Nazarius had brought up, and whom Anolinus, in
the persecution of Nero, had ordered to be struck
with the sword on the 28th of July, the day when
their martyrdom is commemorated.&mdash;At Madrid, St.
Isidore, a laborer. Being renowned for miracles,
pope Gregory XV. placed him in the number of the
Saints at the same time with St. Ignatius, St. Francis, St. Theresa, and St. Philip.


