AT Rome, St. Alexius, confessor, son of the senator Euphemian. Leaving his spouse untouched
the night of his marriage, he withdrew from his
house, and after a long pilgrimage returned to
Rome, where he was for seventeen years harbored
in his father’s house as an unknown beggar, thus
deluding the world by a new device. But after his
death, becoming known through a voice heard in
the churches of the city, and by his own writing, he
was, under the Sovereign Pontiff, Innocent I., translated to the church of St. Boniface, where he wrought
many miracles.&mdash;At Carthage, the birthday of the
holy Scillitan martyrs Speratus, Narzales, Cythinus,
Veturius, Felix, Acyllinus, Laetantius, Januaria,
Generosa, Vestina, Donata, and Secunda. By order
of the prefect Saturninus, after their first confession of the faith, they were sent to prison, nailed to
pieces of wood, and finally beheaded. The relics of
Speratus, with the bones of blessed Cyprian and the
head of the martyr St. Pantaleon, were carried from
Africa into France, and religiously placed in the
basilica of St. John the Baptist at Lyons.&mdash;At
Amastris, in Paphlagonia, St. Hyacinth, martyr,
who died in prison after much suffering, under the
THE vigil of St. Bartholomew, apostle.&mdash;At Todi,
St. Philip Beniti of Florence, confessor. He
contributed greatly to the growth of the Order of
the Servites of the Blessed Virgin Mary, and was a
man of the greatest humility. He was numbered
among the saints by Clement X.&mdash;At Antioch, the
birthday of the holy martyrs Restitutus, Donatus,
Valerian, and Fructuosa, with twelve others, who.
were crowned after having distinguished themselves
by a glorious confession.&mdash;At Ostia, the holy martyrs
Quiriacus, bishop, Maximus, priest, Archelaus,
deacon, and their companions, who suffered under
the prefect Ulpian, in the time of Alexander.&mdash;At
AEgaea, in Cilicia, the holy martyrs Claudius, Asterius, and Neon, brothers, who were accused of being
Christians by their step-mother, under the emperor
Diocletian, and the governor Lysias, and after enduring bitter torments, were fastened to a cross, and
thus conquered and triumphed with Christ. After
them suffered Donvina and Theonilla.&mdash;At Rheims,
in France, the birthday of the Saints Timothy and
Apollinaris, who merited to enter the heavenly
kingdom by consummating their martyrdom in that
city.&mdash;At Lyons, the holy martyrs Minervus, and
Eleazar with his eight sons.&mdash;Also, St. Luppus,
martyr, who, though a slave, enjoyed the liberty of
Christ, and was likewise deemed worthy of the
crown of martyrd0m.&mdash;At Jerusalem, St. Zaccheus,
bishop, who governed the church of that city the
fourth after the blessed apostle James.&mdash;At Alexandria, St. Theonas, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At
Utica, in Africa, blessed Victor, bishop.&mdash;At Autun,
St. Flavian, bishop.&mdash;At Clermont, in Auvergne, St.
Sidonius, a bishop distinguished for learning and
sanctity.


prefect Castritius.&mdash;At Tivoli, St. Generosus, martyr.&mdash;At Constantinople, St. Theodota, martyr, under the Iconoclast Leo.&mdash;At Rome, the demise of
pope St. Leo IV.&mdash;At Pavia, St. Ennodius, bishop
and confessor.&mdash;At Auxerre, St. Theodosius, bishop.
&mdash;At Milan, the virgin St. Marcellina, sister of the
blessed bishop Ambrose, who received the religious
veil from pope Liberius in the basilica of St. Peter
at Rome. Her sanctity is attested by St. Ambrose
in his writings.&mdash;At Venice, the translation of St.
Marina, virgin.

