AT Tarascon, in France, St. Martha, virgin, the
hostess of our Saviour, and sister of blessed Mary
Magdalen and St. Lazarus.&mdash;At Rome, on the Aurelian road, St. Felix II., pope and martyr. Being
expelled from his See by the Arian emperor Constantius for defending the Catholic faith, and being put
to the sword privately at Cera, in Tuscany, he died
gloriously. His body was taken away from that
place by clerics, and buried on the Aurelian road.
It was afterwards brought to the church of the
Saints Cosmas and Damian, where, under the
Sovereign Pontiff, Gregory XIII., it was found beneath the altar with the relics of the holy martyrs
Mark, Marcellian, and Tranquillinus, and with these
was put back in the same place on the 31st of July.
In the same altar were also found the bodies of the
holy martyrs Abundius, priest, and Abundantius,
deacon, which were shortly after solemnly transferred to the church of the Society of Jesus, on the
eve of their festival.&mdash;Also at Rome, on the road to
Porto, the holy martyrs Simplicius, Faustinus, and
Beatrix, in the time of the emperor Diocletian. The
first two, after being subjected to many different torments, were condemned to suffer capital punishment;
Beatrix, their sister, was smothered in prison.&mdash;
Again, at Rome, the holy martyrs Lucilla and Flora,
virgins, Eugenius, Antoninus, Theodore, and eighteen companions, who underwent martyrdom in the
reign of the emperor Gallienus.&mdash;At Gangra, in Paphlagonia, St. Callinicus, martyr, who was scourged
with iron rods, and given over to other torments.
Being finally cast into a furnace, he gave up his soul
to God.&mdash;In Norway, St. Olaf, king and martyr.&mdash;
At Troyes, in France, St. Lupus, bishop and confessor, who went with blessed Germanus to England
to combat the Pelagian heresy, and by assiduous
prayer defended the city of Troyes from the furor of
Attila, who was devastating all France. At length,
having religiously discharged the functions of the
priesthood for fifty-two years, he rested in peace.&mdash;
At St. Brieuc, St. William, bishop and confessor.&mdash;
Also, the demise of blessed Prosper, bishop of Orleans.&mdash;At Todi, St. Faustinus, confessor.&mdash;At
Mamia, St. Seraphina.

