THE apostle St. Bartholomew, who preached the
Gospel of Christ in India. He passed thence
into the Greater Armenia, where, after converting
many to the faith, he was flayed alive by the barbarians, and beheaded by order of king Astyages,
and thus he terminated his martyrdom. His sacred
body was first carried to the island of Lipara, then
to Benevento, and finally to Rome in the island of
the Tiber, where it is venerated by the pious faithful.&mdash;At Carthage, three hundred holy martyrs, in
the time of Valerian and Gallienus. Among other
torments inflicted on them, a pit filled with burning
lime was prepared by order of the governor, who,
live coals with incense being brought to him, said
to the confessors: “Choose one of these two things;
to offer incense to Jupiter on these coals, or to cast
yourselves into the lime.” Armed with faith, and
confessing Christ to be the Son of God, they quickly
precipitated themselves into the pit, and amidst
the vapors of the lime were reduced to dust. From
this circumstance this blessed troop obtained the
appellation of White Mass.&mdash;At Nepi, St. Ptolemy,
bishop, disciple of the blessed apostle Peter. Being
sent by him to preach the Gospel in Tuscany, he
died a glorious martyr of Christ in the city of Nepi.
&mdash;In the same place, St. Romanus, bishop of that
city, who was the disciple of St. Ptolemy, and his
companion in martyrdom.&mdash;At Ostia, St. Aurea,
virgin and martyr, who was plunged into the sea
with a stone tied to her neck. Her body, being
cast on the shore, was buried by blessed Nonnus.&mdash;
In Isauria, St. Tatio, martyr, who received the
crown of martyrdom by being beheaded in the persecution of Domitian, under the governor Urbanus.&mdash;
The same day, St. Eutychius, disciple of the blessed
Evangelist John. He preached the Gospel in many
countries, was subjected to imprisonment, to stripes
and fire, and finally he rested in peace.&mdash;Also, St.
George Limniota, monk. Because he reprehended
the impious emperor Leo for breaking holy images
and burning the relics of the saints, he had his hands
cut oif and his head burned by order of the tyrant,
and went to our Lord to receive the recompense of a
martyr.&mdash;At Rouen, St. Owen, bishop and confessor.
&mdash;At Nevers, St. Patrick, abbot.

