IN THE province of Narbonne, St. Giles, abbot and confessor.&mdash;At Benevento, twelve 
saintly brothers, martyrs.&mdash;In Palestine, 
the Saints Josue and Gedeon.&mdash;At Jerusalem, blessed Anna, prophetess, whose sanctity is 
revealed in the Gospel.&mdash;At Capua, on the Aquarian 
road, St. Priscus, martyr, who was one of the ancient 
disciples of Christ.&mdash;At Rheims, in France, St. 
Xystus, disciple of the blessed apostle Peter, who 
was consecrated by him the first bishop of that city, 
and received the crown of martyrdom under Nero. 
&mdash;At Todi, in Umbria, St. Terentian, bishop and martyr. Under the emperor Adrian, he was racked, and 
scourged with whips set with metal by order of the 
proconsul Laetian, and finally, having his tongue cut 
out, he ended his martyrdom by undergoing capital 
punishment.&mdash;At Heraclea, St. Ammon, deacon, and 
forty holy virgins whom he instructed in the faith, 
and led with him to the glory of matryrdom, under 
the tyrant Licinius.&mdash;In Spain, the holy martyrs 
Vincent and Lsetus.&mdash;At Piombino, in Tuscany, St. 
Regulus, martyr, who went thither from Africa, 
and consummated his martyrdom under Totila. 
&mdash;At Sens, St. Lupus, bishop and confessor, of whom 
it is related, that on a certain day, whilst he stood 
at the holy altar in presence of the clergy, a gem 
fell from heaven into the consecrated chalice which 
he was using.&mdash;At Capua, St. Priscus, bishop. He 
was one of those priests who were subjected to 
various trials for the Catholic faith during the 
persecution of the Vandals. Being put in an old 
ship on the coast of Africa, they reached the shores 
of Campania, and separating, they were placed at 
the head of various churches, and thus greatly extended the Christian religion. The companions of 
Priscus were Castrensis, Tammarus, Rosius, Heraclius, Secundinus, Adjutor, Mark, Augustus, Elpidius, Canion, and Vindonius.&mdash;At Aquino, St. Constantius, a bishop renowned for the gift of prophecy 
and many virtues.&mdash;At Le Mans, St. Victorius, bishop.&mdash;In Baden, in the diocese of Constance, St. 
Verena, virgin. 



