AT Alba, in Hungary, St. Stephen, king of Hungary, who, being adorned with divine virtues, 
was the first to convert the Hungarians to the faith 
of Christ. He was received into heaven by the 
Virgin Mother of God, on the day of her Assumption. His feast, nevertheless, is commemorated on 
this day, according to the Constitution of pope Innocent XI., when the strong fortress of Buda was 
reconquered through the assistance of the holy 
king, by the brave Christian army.&mdash;At Rome, the 
holy martyr Maxima, who confessed Christ with 
St. Ansanus in the persecution of Diocletian, and 
yielded up her soul whilst she was beaten with rods. 
&mdash;At Pamiers, in France, St. Antoninus, martyr, 
whose relics are kept with great veneration in the 
church of Palencia. Also, the holy martyrs Diomedes, Julian, Philip, Euthychian, Hesychius, Leonides, Philadelphus, Menalippus, and Pantagapas. 
They consummated their martyrdom, some by fire, 
some by water, others by the sword or by the cross. 
At Mcomedia, the holy martyr Zeno, and his sons 
Concordius and Theodore. The same day, the martyrdom of the Saints Evodius and Hermogenes, 
brothers, and Callista, their sister.&mdash;At Lyons, in 
France, St. Justus, bishop and confessor, who was 
endowed with extraordinary sanctity, and a prophetic spirit. He resigned his bishopric, and retired 
into a desert of Egypt, with his lector Viator. 
When he had for some years led an almost angelical life, and the end of his meritorious labors had 
come, he went to our Lord to receive the crown of 
justice, on the 14th day of October. His holy body, 
together with the relics of his blessed lector Viator, 
was afterwards taken to Lyons on this day.&mdash;In the 
same city, St. Elpidius, bishop and confessor.&mdash;In 
the March of Ancona, another St. Elpidius, an abbot. 
A town bearing his name glories in the possession 
of his sacred body.&mdash;On Mount Soractes, the abbot 
St. Nonnosus, who, by his prayers removed a rock 
of huge dimensions, and was renowned for other 
miracles. 



