AT Rome, St. Serapia, virgin. Under the emperor 
Adrian, she was delivered to two lascivious 
young men, and as she could not be corrupted, nor 
afterwards burned with lighted torches, she was 
beaten with rods, and finally beheaded, by order of 
the judge Berillus. She died on the 29th of July, 
and was buried by blessed Sabina in her own sepulchre, near the field of Vindician. But the commemoration of her martyrdom is celebrated more 
solemnly on this day, when their common tomb was 
finished and adorned, and dedicated as a place of 
prayer.&mdash;At Corinth, the birthday of St. Phoabe, 
mentioned by the blessed apostle Paul in his epistle 
to the Komans.&mdash;At Aquileia, the holy virgins and 
martyrs Euphemia, Dorothea, Thecla, and Erasma. 
Under Nero, after enduring many torments, they 
were slain with the sword, and buried by St. Hermagoras.&mdash;At Capua, the holy martyrs Aristseus, 
bishop, and Antoninus, a boy.&mdash;At Nicomedia, the 
martyrdom of St. Basillissa, virgin and martyr, in 
the persecution of Diocletian, under the governor 
Alexander.&mdash;At the age of nine years, after having, 
through the power of God, overcome scourging, fire, 
and the beasts, she gave up her soul to her Creator 
in prayer. Also, the holy martyrs Zeno and Chariton. The one was cast into a caldron of melted 
lead, the other into a burning furnace.&mdash;At Cordova, 
St. Sandalus, martyr. The same day, the birthday 
of the holy martyrs Aigulphus, abbot of Lerins, and 
the monks, his companions, who, after their tongues 
were cut off, and their eyes plucked out, were killed 
with the sword.&mdash;At Toul, in France, St. Mansuetus, 
bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Milan, the demise of St. 
Auxanus, bishop. The same day, St. Simeon Stylites, the younger.&mdash;At Rome, the raising to the 
Sovereign Pontificate of St. Gregory the Great, an 
incomparable man, who, being forced to take that 
burden upon himself, sent forth from the more 
exalted throne brighter rays of sanctity upon the 
world. 



