AT Nicomedia, the birthday of the blessed martyr 
John, who seeing the cruel edicts against 
Christians posted up in the public square, and being 
inflamed with an ardent faith, stretched forth his 
hand, took them away and tore them up. This being reported to the emperors Diocletian and Maximian, then residing in that city, they gave orders 
that he should be subjected to all kinds of torments, 
which the noble champion bore with such cheerfulness of spirit, as not to show on his countenance the 
least trace of pain or grief.&mdash;At Csesarea, in Cappadocia, in the time of the emperor Adrian, St. Eupsychius, martyr, who, on being accused of professing 
Christianity, was cast into prison. His release following shortly after, he immediately sold his patrimony, and distributed the proceeds of it partly to 
the poor and partly to his accusers, whom he regarded as his benefactors. But being again arrested, 
under the judge Sapritius, he was lacerated, pierced 
through with a sword, and thus consummated his 
martyrdom.&mdash;At Pompeiopolis, in Cilicia, St. Sozon, 
martyr, who, being thrown into the fire, yielded up 
his spirit, in the time of the emperor Maximian. 
At Aquileia, St. Anastasius, martyr.&mdash;In the diocese of Autun, St. Regina, virgin and martyr, under 
the proconsul Olybrius. After having suffered imprisonment, the rack, and burning with torches, she 
was condemned to capital punishment, and so went 
to her spouse.&mdash;At Troyes, St. Nemorius, deacon, and 
his companions, martyrs, who were slain by Attila, 
king of the Huns.&mdash;At Orleans, in France, the departure from this life of the holy bishop Evortius, 
who was first a subdeacon of the Roman Church, 
and afterwards, through the divine favor, was 
designated bishop of that city by a dove.&mdash;In France, 
St. Augustalis, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Capua, St. 
Pamphilus, bishop.&mdash;In the territory of Paris, St. 
Cloud, priest and confessor.&mdash;At Nonantola, pope St. 
Adrian III., remarkable for his zeal to reconcile the 
Eastern churches with the Holy See. He died in 
the odor of sanctity at San Cesario, and became 
widely celebrated by his miracles. 




