THE commemoration of the Impression of the 
Sacred Wounds which St. Francis, founder of 
the Order of Minorites, received, through a wonderful favor of God, in his hands, feet and side, on 
Mount Alvernia, in Tuscany.&mdash;At Rome, on the road 
to Tivoli, the birthday of St. Justin, priest and martyr, who distinguished himself by a glorious confession of the faith, during the persecution of Valerian and Gallienus. He buried the bodies of the 
blessed pontiff, Xystus, of Lawrence, Hippolytus, 
and many other saints, and finally consummated his 
martyrdom under Claudius.&mdash;Also, at Rome, the 
holy martyrs Narcissus and Crescentio.&mdash;In Phrygia, St. Ariadna, martyr, under the emperor Adrian. 
&mdash;In England, the holy martyrs Socrates and Stephen.&mdash;At Nevers, the holy martyrs Valerian, Macrinus, and Gordian.&mdash;At Autun, under the emperor 
Antoninus and the governor Valerian, St. Flocellus, 
a boy, who, after many sufferings, was torn to pieces 
by wild beasts, and thus won the crown of martyrs. 
&mdash;At Liege, blessed Lambert, bishop of Maestricht. 
Having, through zeal for religion, rebuked the royal 
family, he was undeservedly put to death by the 
guilty, and thus entered the court of the heavenly 
kingdom, to enjoy it forever.&mdash;At Saragossa, in 
Spain, St. Peter of Arbues, first inquisitor of the 
faith in the kingdom of Arragon, who received the 
palm of martyrdom by being barbarously massacred 
by apostate Jews, for defending courageously the 
Catholic faith, according to the duties of his office. 
He was canonized by Pius IX. in 1867.&mdash;The same 
day, St. Agathoclia, servant of an infidel woman, 
who was for a long time subjected by her to blows 
and other afflictions, that she might deny Christ. 
She was finally presented to the judge and cruelly 
lacerated, and as she persisted in confessing the 
faith, they cut off her tongue and threw her into 
the flames.&mdash;At Cordova, St. Columba, virgin and 
martyr.&mdash;At Milan, the departure from this world 
of St. Satyrus, confessor, whose distinguished merits are mentioned by his brother, St. Ambrose.&mdash;At 
Rome, in the persecution of Diocletian, St. Theodora, a matron, who carefully ministered to the 
martyrs.&mdash;At Bingen, in the diocese of Mayence, St. 
Hildegarde, virgin. 


