IN Africa, two hundred and seventy holy martyrs 
crowned together.&mdash;In the same country, the 
Saints Martinian and Saturnian with their two 
brothers.&mdash;In the reign of the Arian king Genseric, 
while the persecution of the Vandals was raging, 
they were slaves belonging to a man of that race, 
and being converted to the faith of Christ by 
Maxima, a slave like themselves, they manifested 
their attachment to the truth with such courage, 
that they were beaten with rough clubs and lacerated in all parts of their bodies to the very bone. 
Although this barbarous treatment was continued 
for a considerable period, their wounds were each 
time healed over night, wherefore they were at 
length sent into exile. There they converted many 
barbarians to the faith, and obtained -from the 
Roman Pontiff a priest and other ministers to baptize them. Finally they were condemned to die by 
being dragged through thorns, with their feet tied 
behind running chariots. Maxima being miraculously delivered after enduring many tribulations, became the Superioress of a large monastery of virgins, 
where she ended her days in peace.&mdash;Also, the Saints 
Saturninus, Nereus, and three hundred and sixty-five other martyrs.&mdash;At Cologne, St. Eliphius, martyr, under Julian the Apostate.&mdash;Also, St. Bercharius, abbot and martyr. Near Bourges, St. Ambrose, 
bishop of Cahors.&mdash;At Mayence, St. Lullus, bishop 
and confessor.&mdash;At Treves, St. Florentinus, bishop. 
&mdash;At Arbon, in Switzerland, St. Gall, abbot, disciple of 
blessed Columban. On Mount Cassino, blessed 
Victor III., who succeeded Gregory VII. in the papal 
chair and threw new lustre rounjd the Holy See by the 
signal triumph he gained over the Saracens through 
the divine assistance. The veneration paid to him 
from time immemorial Pope Leo XIII. approved and 
confirmed.&mdash;At Muro, in Lucania, St. Gerard Majella, 
a professed lay brother in the Congregation of the 
Most Holy Redeemer. Pius X., on account of his 
reputation for miracles ranked him among the saints. 


