AT Milan, St. Charles Borromeo, cardinal, and 
bishop of that city, who was ranked among the 
Saints by Paul V. on account of the holiness of 
his life and his renown for miracles.&mdash;At Bologna, 
the holy martyrs Vitalis and Agricola. The former 
was first the servant of the latter, and afterwards 
his partner and colleague in martyrdom. He was 
subjected by the persecutors to all kinds of torments, so that there was no part of his body without wounds. After having suffered with constancy, 
he yielded up his soul to God in prayer. Agricola 
was put to death by being fastened to a cross with 
many nails. St. Ambrose relates that being present 
at their translation, he took the martyr's nails, his 
glorious blood, and the wood of his cross, and deposited them under the consecrated altars.&mdash;The 
same day, the birthday of the Saints Philologus and 
Patrobas, disciples of the apostle St. Paul.&mdash;At 
Autun, St. Proculus, martyr.&mdash;In Vexin (in the 
North of France), St. Clarus, priest and martyr. 
At Ephesus, St. Porphyry, martyr, under the emperor Aurelian.&mdash;At Myra, in Lycia, the holy martyrs Nicander, bishop, and Hermas, priest, under 
the governor Libanius.&mdash;The same day, the birthday 
of St. Pierius, priest of Alexandria, who, being 
deeply versed in the sacred Scriptures, leading a 
very pure life, and freed from all impediments in 
order to apply to Christian philosophy, taught the 
people with great renown, and published various 
treatises, under the emperors Carus and Diocletian, 
when Theonas governed the church of Alexandria. 
After the persecution, he spent the remainder of his 
life at Borne, where he rested in peace.&mdash;At Bhodez, 
in France, blessed Amantius, bishop, whose life was 
resplendent with sanctity and miracles.&mdash;In Bithynia, St. Joannicius, abbot.&mdash;In Hungary, at Alba-Begale, the demise of St. Emeric, confessor, son of 
St. Stephen, king of Hungary.&mdash;In the monastery 
of Cerfroid, in the diocese of Meaux, St. Felix de 
Valois, founder of the Order of the Most Holy 
Trinity for the Bedemption of Captives. His feast 
is celebrated on the 20th of this month by order of 
Innocent XI.&mdash;At Treves, St. Modesta, virgin. 


