AT Syracuse, in Sicily, the birthday of St. Lucy, 
virgin and martyr, in the persecution of Diocletian. By the order of the ex-consul Paschasius, 
she was delivered to profligates, that her chastity 
might be insulted; but when they attempted to lead 
her away, they could not succeed, either with ropes 
or with many yoke of oxen. Then pouring hot pitch, 
rosin, and boiling oil over her body without injuring 
her, they finally plunged a sword into her throat, and 
thus completed her martyrdom.&mdash;In Armenia, the 
martyrdom of the holy martyrs Eustratius, Auxentius, Eugene, Mardarius, and Orestes, in the persecution of Diocletian. Eustratius was first subjected 
alone to barbarous torments under Lysias. Then he 
was conducted to Sebaste, where he was tortured together with Orestes under the governor Agricolaus, 
and being cast into a furnace, yielded up his soul; 
but Orestes being laid on a bed of red-hot iron, rendered his soul to God. The others were made to endure most grievous torments among the Arabraci, under the governor Lysias, and consummated their 
martyrdom in different manners. Their relics were 
afterwards carried to Rome, and placed with due 
honors in the church of St. Apollinaris.&mdash;Near Sardinia, in the island of Solta, the martyrdom of St. 
Antiochus, under the emperor Adrian.&mdash;At Cambrai, 
in France, St. Aubertus, bishop and confessor.&mdash;In 
Ponthieu, St. Judocus, confessor.&mdash;In Alsace, St. 
Othilia, abbess.&mdash;At Moulins, in France, the birthday of St. Jane Frances Fremiot de Chantal, 
foundress of the nuns of the Visitation of St. Mary, 
distinguished by the nobility of her birth, by the 
holiness she constantly manifested in four different 
states of life, and by the gift of miracles. She was 
placed among the saints by Clement XIII. Her 
sacred body was conveyed to Annecy, in Savoy, and 
interred with great pomp in the first church of her 
Order. By the command of Clement XIV., her festival is kept by the whole Church on the 21st of 
August. 


