
PATRON SAINTS OF TRADE; 
AND OF PROFESSIONS 

Aeronauts-Our Lady of Loreto. 

Architects St. Pucisus, martyr, super 
intendent of the buildings of King Sapor: 
April 21. 

Automobilists St. Christopher: July 25. 

Bakers St. Elizabeth of Hungary, who 
gave her all to the poor: November 19. 

Bookbinders St. Peter Celestine, who 
covered his books with leather: May 19. 

Builders St. Vincent Ferrer, said to 
have restored to life three persons who 
had fallen from heights: April 5. 

Butchers St. Aureliatus, who was orig- 
inally a heathen, and killed animals for 
sacrifice: May 8. 

Carpenters St. Joseph: March 19. 

Comedians St. Vitus: June 15. 

Dyers St. Lydia: August 3. 

Farmers St. George, signifying "tiller 
of the soil:" April 23. 

Fishermen St. Andrew: November 30. 

Florists and Gardeners St. Dorothy: 
February 6. 

Hatters St. Stevens ol Ravenna, who 
was a hatter before his election to the 
Bishopric of Ravenna: February 1. 

Hunters St. Hubert, who, passionately 
fond of hunting, was pursuing the sport in 
Holy Week, when a deer, with a cross be- 
tween its horns, passed him. He became 
fervent in religion, and eventually a 
Bishop: November 3. 

Jewellers St. Eligius, who displayed a 
great skill in the working of gold: Decem- 
ber 1. 

Journalists St. Frances de Sales : Janu- 
ary 29. 

Lawyers St. Ives, who studied in Paris, 
and pleaded the cause of poor people and 
widows: May 19. 

Merchants St. Francis of Assisi, who 
before his conversion was a noted mer- 
chant: October 4. 

Messengers St. Gabriel, "bearer of 
glad tidings": March 18. 

Millers St. Victor, who was condemned 
to death because he refused to offer sacri- 
fice to idols, and was thrown across a mill 
wheel, which refused to turn: July 21. 

Musicians St. Cecilia: November 22. 

Notaries St. Mark: April 25. 

Painter:- St. Luke, who has given us 
in his Gospel the best picture of Our 
Lady : October 8. 

Philosophers St. Catherine of Alexan- 
dria: November 23. 



Physicians Saints Cormas and Damlan, 
who studied medicine in Syria, where they 
*" d the Poor free of charge: Septem- 



THE ROMAN MARTYROLOGY 



Smttatt 



PUBLISHED BY ORDER OF GREGORY XIII. 

REVISED BY THE AUTHORITY OP 

URBAN VIII, and CLEMENT X. 

Afterwards, in the year 1749, Augmented and Corrected by 

BENEDICT XIV. 



LAST EDITION, ACCORDING TO THE COPY PRINTED AT ROME IN 1914. 

TRANSLATED FROM THE LATIN WITH AN INTRODUCTION BY 

THE MOST REV. ARCHBISHOP OF BALTIMORE. 



EiMtiun. until tlie imprimatur of 3?ia Emiimtr* 
(Cardinal (ftibhana. 



JOHN MURPHY COMPANY, PUBLISHERS, 

Printers to the Holy See and to the Cardinal Archbishop 
of Baltimore. 

BALTIMORE. 

1916. 




MOV 2 7 1942 




imprimatur: 

J. CARD. GIBBONS, 

ARCHIEP. BALT. 



COPYRIGHT, 1897, BY JOHN MURPHY & Co. 



INTRODUCTION. 




I HE ROMAN MARTYROLOGY is an official and 
accredited record, on the pages of which 
are set forth in simple and brief, but 
impressive words, the glorious deeds of the Soldiers 
of Christ in all ages of the Church ; of the illustrious 
Heroes and Heroines of the Cross, whom her solemn 
verdict has beatified or canonized. In making up 
this long roll of honor, the Church has been actuated 
by that instinctive wisdom with which the Spirit of 
God, who abides in her and teaches her all truth, 
has endowed her, and which permeates through and 
guides all her actions. She is the Spouse of Christ, 
without spot or wrinkle or blemish, wholly glorious 
and undefiled, whom He loved, for whom He died, 
and to whom He promised the Spirit of Truth, to 
comfort her in her dreary pilgrimage through this 
valley of tears, and to abide with her forever. She 
is one with Him in Spirit and in love, she is subject 



VI INTRODUCTION. 

to Him in all things; she loves what He loves, she 
teaches and practises what He commands. 

If the world has its "Legions of Honor," why 
should not also the Church of the Living God, the 
pillar and the ground of the truth? If men who 
have been stained with blood, and women who have 
been tainted with vice, have had their memory con- 
secrated in prose and in verse, and monuments 
erected to their memory, because they exhibited 
extraordinary talents, achieved great success, or 
were, to a greater or less extent, benefactors of their 
race in the temporal order, which passe th away, 
why should not the true Heroes and Heroines of 
Jesus, who, imitating His example, have overcome 
themselves, risen superior to and trampled upon the 
world, have aspired, in all their thoughts, words, 
and actions, to a heavenly crown, and have more- 
over labored with disinterested zeal and self -forget- 
ting love for the good of their fellow-men, have their 
memories likewise consecrated and embalmed in the 
minds and hearts of the people of God? If time 
have its heroes, why should not eternity; if man, 
why should not God? "Thy friends, O Lord, are 
exceedingly honored; their principality is exceed- 
ingly exalted I" Whom His Father so dearly loved, 
the world crucified; whom the world neglects, de- 



INTRODUCTION. VH 

spises, aiid crucifies, God, through His Church, 
exceedingly honors and exalts. Their praises are 
sung forth, with jubilation of heart, in the Church 
of God for ages on ages. 

The wisdom of the Church of God in honoring her 
Saints is equaled only by the great utility of the 
practice thus consecrated. The Saints are not 
merely heroes; they are models. Christ lived in 
them, and Christ yet speaks through them. They 
were the living temples of the Holy Ghost, in whose 
mortal bodies dwelt all the riches of His wisdom and 
grace. They were in life consecrated human examp- 
lars of divine excellence and perfection. Their 
example still appeals to our minds and to 
our hearts, more eloquently even than did their 
\vords to the men of their own generation, 
while they were in the tabernacle of the flesh. 
Though dead, they still speak. Their relics are 
instinct with sanctity, and through them they con- 
tinue to breathe forth Ihe sweet odor of Christ. The 
immortality into which they have entered still 
lingers in their bones, and seems to breathe in their 
mortal remains. As many an ardent, spirit has been 
induced to rush to the cannon's mouth by reading 
the exploits of earthly heroes, so many a generous 
Christian soul has been fired with heavenly ardor, 



Vlll INTRODUCTION. 

and been impelled to rush to the crown of martyr- 
dom, by reading the lives and heroic achievements 
of the Saints and Martyrs of Christ. Example, in 
its silent appeal, is more potent in its influence on 
the human heart and conduct than are words in their 
most eloquent utterances. 

The Church knows and feels all this, in the Spirit 
of God with whom she is replenished ; and hence she 
sets forth, with holy joy and exultant hope, her 
bright and ever-increasing Calendar of Sanctity of 
just men and women made perfect and rendered 
glorious, under her unearthly and sublime teachings. 
In reading this roll of consecrated holiness, our 
instinctive conclusion is, precisely that which the 
great soul of St. Augustine reached at the very crisis 
of his life, the moment of his conversion "If other 
men like me have attained to such sanctity, why not 
I ? Shall the poor, the afflicted, the despised of the 
World, bear away the palm of victory, the crown of 
immortality, while I lie buried in my sloth and dead 
in my sins, and thus lose the brilliant and glorious 
mansion already prepared for me in heaven? Shall 
all the gifts, which God has lavished upon me, be 
ingloriously spent and foolishly wasted, in the petty 
contest for this world's evanescent honors and riches, 
while the poor and contemned lay up treasures in 



INTRODUCTION. IX 

heaven, and secure the prize of immortal glory? 
Shall others be the friends of God, whom He delights 
to honor, while I alone remain His enemy, and an 
alien from His blessed Kingdom ?" 

It is a consoling evidence of progress in the spir- 
itual life in this country to find the Martyrology 
here published, for the first time, in English, and 
thereby made accessible, in its rich treasures of 
Sanctity, to all classes of our population. It will 
prove highly edifying and useful, not only to the 
members of our numerous religious Communities of 
both sexes, but also to the laity generally. Every 
day has here its record of Sanctity; and there is 
scarcely a Christian, no matter how lowly or how 
much occupied, who may not be able to daily persue, 
with faith and with great profit, the brief page of 
each day's models of Holiness. These belong to all 
classes and callings of life; from the throne to the 
hovel, from the Pontiff to the lowest cleric, from the 
philosopher to the peasant, from the busy walks of 
life to the dreary wastes of the desert. 

Let all, then, procure and read daily the appro 
priate portions of this Martyrology. Its daily and 
pious perusal will console us in affliction, will ani- 
mate us in despondency, will make our souls glow 
with the love of God in coldness, and will lift up 



X INTRODUCTION. 

our minds and hearts from this dull and ever- 
changing earth to the bright and everlasting man- 
sions prepared for us in Heaven ! 



MOVABLE FEASTS 




H E movable feasts could not be mentioned 
in the Martyrology, because they are kept 
on different days each year. They are put 
in this place, in order that after naming the day of 
the month, each one may be announced before read- 
ing the Martyrology of the day on which it shall 
occur in that year, as follows : 



Saturday preceding Sunday the 3d, kill or 5th of 

January j or when Sunday does not fall on any 

of these dates, the first day of January. 

The feast of the most holy Name of Jesus. 

Saturday before Septuagesma Sunday. 

Septuagesima Sunday, on which the canticle of 
the Lord, Alleluia, ceases to be said. 

Tuesday after Quinquagesima Sunday. 

Ash-Wednesday, and the beginning of the fast of 
the most holy season of Lent. 



Xii MOVABLE FEASTS. 

Thursday after Passion Sunday. 

The festival of the Seven Dolors of the most blessed 
Virgin Mary. 

Saturday before Palm-Sunday. 

Palm-Sunday, when our Lord Jesus Christ, accord- 
ing to the prophecy of Zachary, entered Jerusalem, 
sitting upon the foal of an ass, and was met by the 
multitude bearing palms. 

Wednesday of Holy Week. 

The Lord's Supper, when Christ Jesus, the day 
before He was crucified for our salvation, delivered 
to His disciples the mysteries of His body and blood 
to be celebrated. 

Easter Sunday , before naming the day of the month. 

On this day which the Lord has made, is the 
solemnity of solemnities, and our Passover ; the Res- 
urrection of our Saviour Jesus Christ according to 
the flesh. 

Then are read the day of the month and the Mar- 
tyrology of the following day. 



MOVABLE FEASTS. 

The third Tuesday after Easter. 

The Solemnity of St. Joseph, Spouse of the Blessed 
Virgin Mary. 

Ascension Eve. 

On Mount Olivet, the Ascension of our Lord Jesus 
Christ. 

Whit-Sunday Eve. 

The day of Pentecost, when the Holy Ghost came 
upon the disciples at Jerusalem in the shape of fiery 
tongues. 

Saturday within the Octave of Whit-Sunday. 
The feast of the most holy and indivisible Trinity. 

Wednesday after the Octave of Whit-Sunday. 
The feast of the most Sacred Body of Christ. 

Thursday, the Octave day of Corpus Christ i. 
The feast of the most Sacred Heart of Jesus. 



THE 



IRoman 



ARRANGED FOR EVERY DAY IN THE YEAR, ACCORDING TO 
THE NEW ORDER OF THE CALENDAR. 



JANUARY. 

Cfte JFim Dag of 




HE Circumcision of our Lord Jesus Christ, 
and the Octave of His Nativity.&mdash;At Rome, 
St. Almachius, martyr, who, by the com- 
mand of Alipius, governor of the city, was 
killed by the gladiators for saying, "Today is the 
Octave of our Lord's birth; put an end to the 
worship of idols, and abstain from unclean sacri- 
fices."&mdash;In the same city, on the Appian way, the 
crowning with martyrdom of thirty holy soldiers, 
under the emperor Diocletian.&mdash;Also at Rome, 
under the emperor Alexander, St. Martina, virgin, 
who endured various kinds of torments, and being 
beheaded, received the palm of martyrdom. Her 
feast is kept on the 30th of this month.&mdash;At Spoleto, 



2 JANUARY. 

in the time of the emperor Antoninus, St. 
Concordius, priest and martyr, who was beaten with 
clubs, and then put to the torture. After a long 
confinement in prison, where he was visited by an 
angel, he lost his life by the sword. The same day, 
St. Magnus, martyr.&mdash;At Csesarea, in Cappadocia, 
the demise of St. Basil, bishop, whose festival is 
kept on the 14th of June, the date of his consecra- 
tion as bishop.&mdash;In Africa, St. Fulgentius, bishop of 
Buspoe, who suffered much from the Arians during 
the persecution of the Vandals, for holding the 
Catholic faith and teaching its excellent doctrine. 
After being banished to Sardinia, he was permitted 
to return to his diocese, where he ended his life by 
a holy death, leaving a reputation for sanctity and 
eloquence.&mdash;At Chieti, in Abruzzo, the birthday* of 
St. Justin, bishop of that city, illustrious for holi- 
ness of life and miracles.&mdash;In the diocese of Lyons, 
in the monastery of St. Claude, St. Eugendus, abbot, 
whose life was eminent for virtues and miracles. 
At Souvigny, St. Odilo, abbot of Cluny, who was the 
first to prescribe that the commemoration of all the 
faithful departed should be made in his monas- 
teries the day after the feast of All Saints. This 
practice was afterwards received and approved by 
the universal Church.&mdash;In Tuscany, on Mount Sen- 



*In the language of the Church, Wrthday refers to the 
day on which a Saint enters heaven. However, the Blessed 
Virgin and St. John the Baptist are exceptions to this rule. 



JANUARY. 3 

ario, blessed Bonfilius, confessor, one of the seven 
founders of the Order of the Servites of the blessed 
Virgin Mary, who, herself, suddenly called her de- 
vout servant to heaven.&mdash;At Alexandria, the de- 
parture from this world of St. Euphrosyna, virgin, 
who was renowned in her monastery for the virtue 
of abstinence, and the gift of miracles. And in 
other places, many other holy martyrs, confessors, 
and virgins. 

Answer. Thanks be to God. 

N. B. The reading of the Martyrology is always 
terminated in this manner. 



Cfte SeconD Dap of 3fanuarp, 

mHE Octave of St. Stephen, the first martyr.&mdash;At 
Rome, the commemoration of many holy martyrs, 
who, despising the edict of the emperor Diocletian, 
which ordered that the sacred books should be deliv- 
ered up, preferred to surrender themselves to the 
executioners rather than to give holy things to 
dogs.&mdash;At Antioch, the passion of blessed Isidore, 
bishop.&mdash;At Tomis, in Pontus, in the time of the 
emperor Licinius, three holy brothers, Argeus, Nar- 
cissus, and the young man Marcellinus. This last, 
being enrolled among the new soldiers, and refusing 
to serve, was beaten almost to death, and for a long 



4 JANUARY. 

time kept in ^prison. Being finally cast into the 
sea, he finished his martyrdom; but his brothers 
were beheaded.&mdash;At Milan, St. Martinian, bishop. 
In Nitria, in Egypt, blessed Isidore, bishop and con- 
fessor. The same day, St. Siridion, bishop.&mdash;In The- 
bais, St. Macarius of Alexandria, abbot. 



Cfie CiritD Dap of 3fanuarp, 

T!HE Octave of St. John, apostle and evangelist. 
*&mdash;At Rome, on the Appian way, the birthday of 
pope St. Anterus, who suffered under Julius Maxi- 
minus, and was buried in the cemetery of Callistus. 
The same day, St. Peter, who was crucified at Au- 
lane.&mdash;In Hellespont, the holy martyrs Cyrinus, 
Primus, and Theogenes.&mdash;At Csesarea, in Cappado- 
cia, St. Gordius, centurion, in whose praise is extanr 
a celebrated discourse, delivered by St. Basil the 
Great on the day of his festival.&mdash;In Cilicia, the 
holy martyrs Zozimus, and the notary&mdash;Athanasius. 
Also, the Saints Theopemptus and Theonas, who 
suffered a glorious martyrdom in the persecution of 
Diocletian.&mdash;At Padua, St. Daniel, martyr.&mdash;At 
Vienne, in France, St. Florentius, bishop, who was 
sent into exile and consummated his martyrdom, in 
the time of the emperor Gallienus.&mdash;At Paris, St. 
Genevieve, virgin, who was consecrated to God by 



JANUARY. 5 

St. Germanus, bishop of Auxerre, and became famous 
for her admirable virtues and miracles. 



C&e Jfourtfi Dag of 3fanuarp, 

rriHE Octave of the Holy&mdash;Innocents.&mdash;In Crete, the 
birthday of St. Titus, who was consecrated bishop 
of that island by the apostle St. Paul. After hav- 
ing faithfully performed the duty of preaching the 
Gospel, he reached the end of his blessed life, and 
was buried in the church of which he had been made 
a worthy minister by the holy apostle.&mdash;At Rome, 
in the reign of the impious Julian, the holy martyrs 
Priscus, priest, Priscillian, cleric, and Benedicta, 4 i 
religious woman, who ended their martyrdom by 
the sword.&mdash;Also, at Rome, under the same emperor, 
blessed Dafrosa, wife of the martyr St. Flavian. 
After her husband had been killed, she was first ban- 
ished, and then beheaded.&mdash;At Bologna, the Saints 
Hermes, Aggoeus, and Caius, martyrs, who suffered 
under the emperor Maximian.&mdash;At Adrumetum, in 
Africa, in the persecution of Severus, the commemo- 
ration of St. Mavilus, martyr, who, being condemned 
by the most cruel president Scapula to be devoured 
by wild beasts, received the crown of martyrdom. 
Also, in Africa, the most renowned martyrs Aqui- 
linus, Geminus, Eugenius, Marcian, Quinctus, Theo- 



6 JANUARY. 

dotus, and Tryphon.&mdash;At Langres, St. Gregory, a 
bishop renowned for miracles.&mdash;At Rheims, in 
France, St. Rigobertus, bishop and confessor. 



Cfte Jfiftft Dap of 3fanuarp, 

fTHHE vigil of the Epiphany of our Lord.&mdash;At Rome, 
in the time of Antoninus Pius, St. Telesphorus, 
pope, who, after many sufferings for the confession 
of Christ, underwent a glorious martyrdom.&mdash;In 
Egypt, during the persecution of Diocletian, the 
commemoration of many holy martyrs, who were 
put to death in Thebais by various kinds of tor- 
ments.&mdash;At Antioch, St. Simeon, monk, who lived 
many years, standing on a pillar, and was, for that 
reason, called Stylites. His whole life was an un- 
broken series of wonders.&mdash;In England, St. Edward, 
king, illustrious by the virtue of chastity and the 
gift of miracles. His feast, by order of Pope&mdash;Inno- 
cent XI., is celebrated on the 13th of October, when 
his sacred body was translated.&mdash;At Alexandria, St. 
Syncletica, whose noble deeds have been recorded 
by St.&mdash;Athanasius.&mdash;At Rome, the holy virgin Emili- 
ana, aunt of pope St. Gregory. Being called to God 
by her sister Tharsilla, who had preceded her, she 
departed for heaven on this day. The same day, St. 
Apollinaris, virgin. 



JANUARY. 7 

Cfte Stetft Dap of 3fanuarp, 

fPHE Epiphany of Our Lord.&mdash;In the diocese of 
Rheims, the martyrdom of St. Macra, virgin, who, 
in the persecution of Diocletian, was cast into the 
fire by order of the governor Rictiovarus. As she 
remained uninjured, she had her breasts cut off, was 
imprisoned in a foul dungeon, rolled upon broken 
earthenware and burning coals, and finally she gave 
up her soul while engaged in prayer.&mdash;In Africa, the 
commemoration of many holy martyrs, who were 
burned at the stake in the persecution of Severus. 
At Rennes, in France, St. Melanius, bishop and con- 
fessor, who, after a life remarkable for virtues in- 
numerable, with his thoughts constantly fixed on 
heaven, gloriously departed from this world.&mdash;At 
Florence, St. Andrew Corsini, a Florentine Car- 
melite and bishop of Fiesoli. Being celebrated for 
miracles, he was ranked among the Saints by Urban 
VIII. His festival is kept on the 4th of February. 
At Geris, in Egypt, St. Nilammon, anchoret, who, 
whilst he was carried to a bishopric against his will, 
gave up his soul to God in prayer. 



Cfte Sefcentj) Dap of 3fanuarp, 

nPHE bringing back of the Child Jesus from Egypt. 

The same day, the birthday of blessed Lucian, 

a priest of the church of Antioch and martyr, who 



8 JANUARY. 

was distinguished for his learning and eloquence. 
He suffered at Nicomedia for the confession of 
Christ, in the persecution of Galerius Maximian, 
and was buried at Helenopolis, in Bithynia. His 
praises have been proclaimed by St. John Chrysos- 
tom.&mdash;At Antioch, St. Clerus, deacon, who, for hav- 
ing professed faith in Christ, was seven times tor- 
tured, a long while kept in prison, and at length 
ended his martyrdom by decapitation.&mdash;In the city 
of Heraclea, the holy martyrs Felix and Januarius. 
The same day, St. Julian, martyr.&mdash;In Denmark, St. 
Canute, king and martyr. His feast is celebrated on 
the 19th of this month.&mdash;At Pavia, St. Crispin, 
bishop and confessor.&mdash;In Dacia, St. Nicetas, bishop, 
who made fierce and barbarous nations humane and 
meek by preaching the Gospel to them.&mdash;In Egypt, 
St. Theodore, a saintly monk, who flourished in the 
time of Constantine the Great. He is mentioned by 
St.&mdash;Athanasius, in his Life of St. Anthony.&mdash;At Bar- 
celona, St. Raymond of Pennafort, "of the Order of 
Preachers, celebrated for sanctity and learning. 
His festival is kept on the 23d of this month. 



Cfie dBfgftti) Dap of 3fanuarp, 

AT Beauvais, in France, the holy martyrs Lucian, 
^ priest, Maximian and Julian. The last two were 
killed with the sword by the persecutors ; but blessed 



JANUARY. 9 

Lueian, who had come to France with St. Denis, not 
fearing, after the slaughter of his companions, to 
confess the name of Christ openly, received the 
same sentence of death.&mdash;Also, St. Eugenian, mar- 
tyr.&mdash;In Lybia, the holy martyrs Theophilus, deacon, 
and Helladius, who, after being lacerated and cut 
with sharp pieces of earthenware, were cast into the 
fire, and rendered their souls to God.&mdash;At Venice, 
the demise of blessed Lawrence Justinian, confessor, 
first patriarch of that city. Eminent for learning, 
and abundantly filled with the heavenly gifts of 
divine wisdom, he was ranked among the Saints by 
Alexander VIII. He is again mentioned on the 5th 
of September.&mdash;At Hierapolis, in Asia, St. Apolli- 
naris, bishop, who was conspicuous for sanctity and 
learning, under Marcus Antoninus Verus.&mdash;At 
Naples, in Campania, the birthday of the bishop St. 
Severin, brother to the blessed martyr Victorinus, 
who, after working many miracles, went to rest, re- 
plenished with virtues and merits.&mdash;At Pavia, St. 
Maximus, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Metz, St. Pa- 
tiens, bishop. The same day, among the inhabitants 
of Noricum (now Austria), the abbot St. Severin, 
who preached the Gospel in that country, and is 
called its apostle. By divine power his body was 
carried to Lucullanum, near Naples, and thence 
transferred to the monastery of St. Severin. 



10 JANUARY. 



Cfie jQttttJ) Dap of 3[anuarg* 

A T Antioch, in the reign of Diocletian and Max- 
^* imian, the birthday of the Saints Julian, martyr, 
and Basilissa, his virgin wife. Having lived in a 
state of virginity with her husband, she reached the 
end of her days in peace. But after the death by 
fire of a multitude of priests and ministers of the 
Church of Christ, who had taken refuge in his house 
from the severity of the persecution, Julian was or- 
dered by the president Marcian to be tormented in 
many ways and executed. With him suffered An- 
thony, a priest, and Anastasius, whom Julian raised 
from the dead, and made partaker of the grace of 
Christ; also, Celsus, a boy, with his mother Mar- 
cionilla, seven brothers, and many others.&mdash;In Mau- 
ritania Csesariensis (now Algeria), St. Marciana, 
virgin, who consummated her martyrdom by bein^ 
condemned to the beasts.&mdash;At Smyrna, the holy mar- 
tyrs Vitalis, Revocatus, and Fortunatus.&mdash;In Africa, 
the holy martyrs Epictetus, Jucundus, Secundus, 
Vitalis, Felix, and seven others.&mdash;At Sebaste, in 
Armenia, St. Peter, bishop, brother of St. Basil the 
Great.&mdash;At Ancona, St. Marcellinus, bishop, who, 
according to St. Gregory, miraculously deliverer! 
that city from destruction by fire. 



JANUARY. 11 

Cfte Centft Dap of 3fanuarp, 

TN Cyprus, blessed Nicanor, one of the first seven 
deacons, a man of admirable faith and virtue, 
who was most gloriously crowned.&mdash;At Rome, pope 
St. Agatho, who terminated a life remarkable for 
sanctity and learning by a holy death.&mdash;At Bourges, 
in Aquitaine, St. William, archbishop and confessor, 
renowned for miracles and virtues. He was canon- 
ized by Honorius III.&mdash;At Milan, St. John the Good, 
bishop and confessor.&mdash;In Thebais, the birthday of 
St. Paul, the first hermit, who lived alone in the 
desert from the sixteenth to the one hundred and 
thirteenth year of his age. His soul was seen by 
St. Anthony carried by angels among the choirs of 
apostles and prophets. His feast is celebrated on 
the 15th of this month.&mdash;At Constantinople, St. Mar- 
cian, priest.&mdash;In the monastery of Cusani, the birth- 
day of St. Peter Urseolus (Orsini), confessor, previ- 
ously Doge of Venice, and afterwards monk of the 
Order of St. Benedict, renowned for piety and mir- 
acles. His festival is kept on the 14th of this 
month. 



Cfte OEletoemi) Dap of 3faniiarp, 

AT Borne, the birthday of St. Hyginus, pope, who 
" suffered a glorious martyrdom in the persecution 
of Antoninus.&mdash;In Africa, blessed Salvius, martyr, 



12 JANUARY. 

on whose birthday St. Augustine preached to the 
people of Carthage.&mdash;At Alexandria, the holy mar- 
tyrs Peter, Severus, and Leucius.&mdash;At Fermo, in the 
Marches, St. Alexander, bishop and martyr.&mdash;At 
Amiens, St. Salvius, bishop and martyr.&mdash;At Brin- 
disi, St. Leucius, bishop and confessor.&mdash;In Cappa- 
docia, in a village called Magariassum, St. Theodo- 
sius, abbot, who, after great sufferings for the Cath- 
olic faith, finally rested in peace.&mdash;In Thebais, St. 
Palaemon, abbot, who was the teacher of St. Pach- 
omius.&mdash;At Suppentonia, near Mount Soractes, the 
holy monk Anastasius, and his companions, who 
were called by a voice from heaven to enter the 
kingdom of God.&mdash;At Pavia, St. Honorata, virgin. 



C&e Ctoelftfi Dag of January 

A T Rome, in the time of the emperor Alexander, 
St. Tatiana, martyr, who was torn with iron 
hooks and combs, thrown to the beasts and cast into 
the fire, but, having received no injury, was be- 
headed, and thus went to heaven.&mdash;In Achaia, St. 
Satyrus, martyr. As he passed before an idol, and 
breathed upon it, making the sign of the cross on 
his forehead, the idol immediately fell to the ground ; 
for this reason he was beheaded. The same day, St. 
Arcadius, martyr, illustrious by his noble birth and 
miracles.&mdash;In Africa, the holy martyrs Zoticus, 



JANUARY. 13 

Rogatus, Modes tus, Castulus, and forty soldiers 
gloriously crowned.&mdash;At Constantinople, the Saints 
Tygrius, priest, and Eutropius, lector, who suffered 
in the time of the emperor Arcadius.&mdash;At Tivoli, St. 
Zoticus, martyr.&mdash;At Ephesus, under Constantine 
Copronymus, the passion of forty-two holy monks, 
who endured martyrdom after being most cruelly 
tortured for the defense of sacred images.&mdash;At Ra- 
venna, St. John, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Verona, 
St. Probus, bishop.&mdash;In England, St. Benedict, abbot 
and confessor. 



C6e Cttfrteentt) Dap of January 



Octave of the Epiphany of Our Lord.&mdash;At 
Rome, on the Lavican road, the crowning of forty 
holy soldiers, a reward they merited by confessing 
the true faith, under the emperor Gallienus.&mdash;In 
Sardinia, St. Potitus, martyr, who, having suffered 
much under the emperor Antoninus and the gov- 
ernor Gelasius, was at last put to death by the 
sword.&mdash;At Singidonum (now Belgrade), in Upper 
Moesia, of the holy martyrs Hermylus and Stratoni- 
cus, who were severely tormented and drowned in 
the river Danube, under the emperor Licinius.&mdash;At 
Cordova, the holy martyrs Gumesindus, priest, and 
Servideus, monk.&mdash;At Poitiers, in France, the birth- 
day of St. Hilary, bishop and confessor of the Cath- 



14 JANUARY. 

olic faith, which he courageously defended, and for 
which he was banished four years to Phrygia, where, 
among other miracles, he raised a man from the 
dead. Pius IX. declared him Doctor of the Church. 
His festival is celebrated on the 14th of this month. 
At Caesarea, in Cappadocia, St. Leontius, a bishop, 
who strongly opposed the Gentiles, under Licinius, 
and the Arians, under Constantine.&mdash;At Treves, St. 
Agritius, bishop.&mdash;In the monastery of Verzy, St. 
Viventius, confessor.&mdash;At Amasea, in Pontus, St. 
Glaphyra, virgin.&mdash;At Milan, in the monastery of 
St. Martha, blessed Veronica of Binasco, virgin of 
the Order of St. Augustine. 



Cfte jFourteentft Dap of 3famtarp, 

OT. HILARY, bishop of Poitiers and confessor, 
*J who entered heaven on the thirteenth day of this 
month.&mdash;At Nola, in Campania, the birthday of St. 
Felix, priest, who (as is related by bishop St. Pau 
linus), after being subjected to torments by the 
persecutors, was cast into prison and extended, 
bound hand and foot, on (snail) shells and broken 
earthenware.&mdash;In the night, however, his bonds were 
loosened and he was delivered by an angel. The 
persecution over, he brought many to the faith of 
Christ by his exemplary life and teaching, and, 
renowned for miracles, rested in peace.&mdash;In Judaea, 



JANUARY. 15 

St. Malachy, prophet. On Mount Sinai, thirty-eight 
holy monks, killed by the Saracens for the faith of 
Christ.&mdash;In Egypt, in the district of Raithy, forty- 
three holy monks, who were put to death by the 
Blemmians, for the Christian religion.&mdash;At Milan, 
St. Datius, bishop and confessor, mentioned by pope 
St. Gregory.&mdash;In Africa, St. Euphrasius, bishop. 
In Syria, in the time of the emperor Valens, St. 
Julian Sabas, the Elder, who miraculously restored 
at Antioch the Catholic faith, which was almost 
destroyed in that city.&mdash;At Neoca3sarea, in Pontus, 
St. Macrina, disciple of St. Gregory Thaumaturgus, 
and grandmother of St. Basil, whom she brought up 
in the Christian faith. 



Cfte Jfifteenti) Dap of January 

ST. PAUL, the first hermit, who was carried to the 
home of the blessed on the tenth of this month. 
In the diocese of Angers, St. Maur, abbot and dis- 
ciple of St. Benedict. He made great progress with 
so able a master, for while he was still under the 
Saint's instruction he miraculously walked upon the 
water a prodigy unheard of since the days of St. 
Peter. Sent later to France by St. Benedict, he built 
a famous monastery, which he governed for forty 
years, and after performing striking miracles, he 
rested in peace.&mdash;In Judaea, the holy prophets Haba- 



16 JANUARY. 

cue and Michaeas, whose bodies were found by divine 
revelation in the days of Theodosius the Elder.&mdash;At 
Anagni, St. Secundina, virgin and martyr, who suf- 
fered under the emperor Decius.&mdash;At Cagliari, in 
Sardinia, St. Ephisius, martyr, who, in the persecu- 
tion of Diocletian and under the judge Flavian, 
having, by the assistance of God, overcome many tor- 
ments, was beheaded and ascended to heaven.&mdash;At 
Nola, in Campania, St. Maximus, bishop.&mdash;At Cler- 
mont, in Auvergne, St. Bonitus, bishop and confes- 
sor.&mdash;In Egypt, St. Macarius, abbot, disciple of St. 
Anthony, very celebrated for his life and miracles. 
Also, blessed Isidore, renowned for holiness of life, 
faith and miracles.&mdash;At Rome, St. John Calybita. 
For some time living unknown to his parents in a 
corner of their house, and later in a hut on an island 
in the Tiber, he was recognized by them only at his 
death. Being renowned for miracles, he was buried 
where he had died, and a church was subsequently 
erected in his honor in the same place. 



Cfie ^feteemj) Dap of 3fanuarp, 

AT Rome, on the Salarian way, the birthday of 
^ the pope St. Marcellus, a martyr, for the con- 
fession of the Catholic faith. By command of the 
tyrant Mexentius he was first beaten with clubs, 
then sent to take care of animals, with a guard to 



JANUARY. 17 

watch him.&mdash;In this servile office, dressed in hair- 
cloth, he departed this life.&mdash;At Morocco, in Africa, 
the martyrdom of the holy martyrs of the Order of 
Minorites, Berard, Peter, Accursius, Adjutus, and 
Otto.&mdash;At Aries, St. Honoratus, bishop and con- 
fessor, whose life was renowned for learning and 
miracles.&mdash;At Oderzo, St. Titian, bishop and con- 
fessor.&mdash;At Rhinocolura, in Egypt, in the reign of 
the emperor Valens, the holy bishop Melas, who 
rested in peace after suffering exile and other pain- 
ful trials for the Catholic fa^ith.&mdash;At Fundi, in 
Campania, St. Honoratus, abbot, mentioned by pope 
St. Gregory.&mdash;In the monastery of Peronne, St. 
Fursey, confessor.&mdash;At Home, St. Priscilla, who de- 
voted herself and her goods to the service of the 
martyrs. 



Cfje Sefcenteentf) Dap of 3faniiarp, 

TN Thebais, St. Anthony, abbot and spiritual guide 
of many monks. He was most celebrated for 
his life and miracles, of which St.&mdash;Athanasius has 
written a detailed account. His sacred body was 
found by divine revelation, during the reign of the 
emperor Justinian, and brought to Alexandria, 
where it was buried in the church of St. John 
the Baptist.&mdash;At Langres, in the time of Marcus 
Aurelius, the saints Speusippus, Eleusippus, and 
Meleusippus, born at one birth, who were crowned 



18 



JANUARY. 



with martyrdom, together with their grandmother 
Leonilla.&mdash;At Borne, the finding of the holy mar- 
tyrs Diodorus, priest, Marian, deacon, and their 
companions. Whilst they were commemorating 
the birthdays of the martyrs in a sand-pit, the en- 
trance was closed by the persecutors, and the vault 
over them broken down, and they thus obtained the 
palm of martyrdom in the reign of pope St. Stephen. 
At Bourges, the demise of St. Sulpicius, surnamed 
Pius, whose life and precious death are adorned 
with glorious miracles.&mdash;At Rome, in the monastery 
of St. Andrew, the blessed monks Anthony, Merulus, 
and John, of whom pope St. Gregory speaks in his 
writings. 



C&e (ZBtgfiteemi) Dap of 3faniiarp* 

mHE Chair of the apostle St. Peter. This festival 
was instituted to commemorate the establish- 
ment of the Holy See at Rome.&mdash;In the same place, 
under the emperor Claudius, the passion of St. 
Prisca, virgin ond martyr, who, after undergoing 
many torments, was crowned with martyrdom. 
In Pontus, the birthday of the holy martyrs Mo- 
seus and Ammonius, soldiers, who were first con- 
demned to work in the metal mines, and then cast 
into the fire.&mdash;In the same country, St.&mdash;Atheno- 
genes, an aged divine, who, on the point of endur- 
ing martyrdom by fire, joyfully sang a hymn, which 



JANUARY. 19 

he left in writing to his disciples.&mdash;At Tours, in 
France, St. Volusian, bishop, who was made captive 
by the Goths, and in exile gave up his soul to God. 
In the same place, St. Leobardus, anchoret, a man 
of wonderful abstinence and humility.&mdash;In Brittany, 
St. Deicola, abbot, disciple of St. Columban.&mdash;At 
Como, St. Liberata, virgin. 



Cfte jQineteemt) Dap of 3fanuarp, 

AT Eome, on the Cornelian road, the holy martyrs 
" Marius and his wife Martha, with their sons 
Audifax and Abachum, noble Persians, who came to 
Home, through devotion, in the time of the Emperor 
Claudius. After they had been beaten with rods, 
tortured on the rack and with fire, lacerated with 
iron hooks, and had endured the cutting off of their 
hands, Martha was put to death in the place called 
Nympha, The others were beheaded and cast into 
the flames.&mdash;Also, St. Canute, king and martyr, 
whose birthday is the 7th of this month.&mdash;At 
Smyrna, under Marcus Antoninus and Lucius Aure- 
lius, the birthday of blessed Germanicus, martyr, 
who, in the bloom of youth, being strengthened by 
the grace of God, and freed from all fear, provoked 
the beast which, by order of the judge, was to de- 
vour him. Being ground by its teeth, he deserved to 
be incorporated into the true bread of life, Christ 
Jesus, for whom he died.&mdash;In Africa, the holy mar- 



20 JANUARY. 

tyrs Paul, Gerontius, Januarius, Saturninus, Suc- 
cessus, Julius, Catus, Pia, and Germana.&mdash;At 
Spoleto, in the days of the emperor Antoninus, the 
passion of St. Pontian, martyr, who was barbarously 
scourged for Christ by the command of the judge 
Fabian, and then compelled to walk barefoot on 
burning coals. As he was uninjured by the tire, 
he was put on the rack, was torn with iron hooks, 
and then thrown into a dungeon, where he was com- 
forted by the visit of an angel. He was afterwards 
exposed to the lions, had melted lead poured over 
him and finally died by the sword.&mdash;At Lodi, St. 
Bassian, bishop and confessor, who, in conjunction 
with St. Ambrose, courageously combated the 
heretics.&mdash;At Worcester, in England, St. Wulstan, 
bishop and confessor, conspicuous for merits and 
miracles. He was ranked among the Saints by 
Innocent III. 



Cfte Ctoemietft Dap of 

AT Rome, the birthday of St. Fabian, pope, who 
^ suffered martyrdom in the time of Decius, and 
was buried in the cemetery of Callistus.&mdash;In the 
same place, in the catacombs, the martyr St. Se- 
bastian. He was commander of the first cohort, 
under the emperor Diocletian, but for professing 
Christianity he was bound to a tree in the centre 
of a vast field, shot with arrows by the soldiers, and 



JANUARY. 21 

beaten with clubs until he expired.&mdash;At Kicaea, in 
Bithynia, St. Neophytus, martyr, who, in the 
fifteenth year of his age, was scourged, cast into 
a furnace, and exposed to wild beasts; as he re- 
mained uninjured, and constantly confessed the 
faith of Christ, he was at last killed with the sword. 
At Cesena, St. Maurus, bishop, renowned for vir- 
tues and miracles.&mdash;In Palestine, in the time of the 
emperor Marcian, the birthday of St. Euthymius, 
abbot, who adorned the Church by his zeal for 
Catholic discipline, and the gift of miracles. 



Cfte Ctoentp*fir0t Dap of 3[anuarp, 

AT Home, the passion of St. Agnes, virgin, who 
^ under Symphronius, governor of the city, was 
thrown into the fire, but as it was extinguished by 
her prayers, she was struck with the sword. Of 
her, St. Jerome writes: "Agnes is praised in the 
writings and by the tongues of all nations, espe- 
cially in the churches. She overcame the weakness 
of her age, conquered the cruelty of the tyrant, and 
consecrated her chastity by martyrdom."&mdash;At 
Athens, the birthday of St. Publius, bishop, who, 
as successor of St. Denis the Areopagite, nobly 
governed the Church of&mdash;Athens. No less celebrated 
for the lustre of his virtues than for the brilliancy 
of his learning, he was gloriously crowned for hav- 



22 JANUARY. 

ing borne testimony to Christ.&mdash;At Tarragona, in 
Spain, during the reign of Gallienus, the holy mar- 
tyrs Fructuosus, bishop, Augurius and Eulogius, 
deacons, who, after being thrown into prison, were 
cast into the fire, where their bonds being burnt, they 
extended their arms in the form of a cross, and con- 
summated their martyrdom in prayer. On their 
anniversary, St. Augustine preached a sermon to 
his people.&mdash;At Troyes, St. Patroclus, martyr, who 
won the crown of martyrdom under the emperor 
Aurelian.&mdash;In the monastery of Reichenau, St. 
Meinrad, hermit, who was killed by brigands.&mdash;At 
Pavia, St. Epiphanius, bishop and confessor. 



Cfte Ctoentp*seconD Dag of January 

AT Valencia, in Spain, while the wicked Dacian 
" was governor, St. Vincent, deacon and martyr, 
who, after suffering imprisonment, hunger, the tor- 
ture, the disjointing of his limbs ; after being burned 
with plates of heated metal and on the gridiron, and 
tormented in other ways, took his flight to heaven, 
there to receive the reward of martyrdom. His 
noble triumph over his sufferings has been elegantly 
set forth in verse by Prudentius, and highly eulo- 
gized by St. Augustine and pope St. Leo.&mdash;At Rome, 
at Aqua3 Salviae, St. Anastasius, a Persian monk, 
who, after suffering much at Caesarea, in Palestine, 



JANUARY. 23 

from imprisonment, stripes and fetters, had to bear 
many afflictions from Chosroes, king of Persia, who 
caused him to be beheaded. He had sent before him 
to martyrdom seventy of his companions, who were 
precipitated into rivers. His head was brought to 
Rome, together with his venerable likeness, by the 
sight of which the demons are expelled, and dis- 
eases cured, as is attested by the Acts of the second 
council of Nicaea.&mdash;At Embrun, in France, the holy 
martyrs Vincent, Orontius, and Victor, who were 
crowned with martyrdom in the persecution of 
Diocletian.&mdash;At Novara, St. Gaudentius, bishop and 
confessor.&mdash;At Sora, the abbot St. Dominic, re- 
nowned for miracles. 



Cfte CtoentHfrirD Dap of 3fanuatp, 

AT Barcelona, St. Eaymond of Pennafort. His 
" birthday is the 7th of January.&mdash;At Rome, the 
holy virgin and martyr Emerentiana. Being yet 
only a catechumen, she was stoned to death by the 
Gentiles, whilst praying at the tomb of St. Agnes, 
her foster-sister.&mdash;At Philippi, in Macedonia, St. 
Parmenas, one of the first seven deacons, who by 
the grace of God faithfully discharging the office of 
preaching committed to him, obtained the glory of 
martyrdom in the time of Trajan.&mdash;At Caesarea, in 
Mauritania (Morocco), the holy martyrs Severian 
and his wife Aquila, who were consumed by fire. 



24 JANUARY. 

At Antinous, a city of Egypt, St. Asclas, martyr, 
who, after various torments, was thrown into a river 
and gave up his precious soul to God.&mdash;At Ancyra, 
in Galatia, St. Clement, bishop. After having fre- 
quently endured torments, he finally completed his 
martyrdom under Diocletian.&mdash;In the same place, 
St. Agathangelus, who suffered on the same day, 
under the governor Lucius.&mdash;At Alexandria, St. 
John the Almoner, bishop of that city, most cele- 
brated for his charity towards the poor.&mdash;At Toledo, 
St. Ildefonsus, bishop, who, on account of his great 
purity of life, and his defense of the virginity of the 
Mother of God against the heretics who impugned 
it, received from her a brilliant white vestment, and 
being renowned for sanctity, was called to heaven. 
In the Province of Valeria, St. Martyrius, monk, 
mentioned by pope St. Gregory. 



Cfte Ctoentp'fotmj) Dap of 3fanitarp, 

fin HE birthday of St. Timothy, disciple of the apostle 
-* St. Paul, who ordained him bishop of Ephesus. 
After many combats for Christ, he was stoned for 
reprehending those who offered sacrifices to Diana, 
and shortly after went peacefully to his rest in the 
Lord.&mdash;At Antioch, in the persecution of Decius, the 
bishop St. Babylas, who frequently glorified God by 
his sufferings and torments, and ended his holy life 



JANUARY. 25 

in chains, with which he ordered his body to be 
buried. Three boys whom he had instructed in the 
faith of Christ, Urbanus, Philidian, Epolonius, are 
said to have suffered with him.&mdash;At Neocaesarea, the 
holy martyrs Mardonius, Musonius, Eugenius, and 
Metellus, who were burned to death, their remains 
being thrown into the river.&mdash;At Foligno, in the 
time of Decius, St. Felician, consecrated bishop of 
that city by pope Victor. After many labors, he 
was crowned with martyrdom in extreme old age. 
Also, the holy martyrs Thyrsus and Projectus.&mdash;At 
Bologna, St. Zamas, the first bishop of that city, who 
was consecrated by pope St. Denis, and there won- 
derfully propagated the Christian faith.&mdash;Also, 
blessed Suranus, abbot, who lived in the time of the 
Lombards. 



CJje CtoentpsfiW) Dap of 3fanuarp, 

rriHE conversion of St. Paul the Apostle, which 
happened the second year after the Ascension of 
our Lord.&mdash;At Damascus, the birthday of St. Ana- 
nias, who baptized that apostle. After he had 
preached the Gospel at Damascus, Eleutheropolis, 
and elsewhere, he was scourged under the judge 
Licinius, had his flesh torn, and lastly being over- 
whelmed with stones, ended his martyrdom.&mdash;At 
Antioch, in the time of Julian the Apostate, the 
holy martyrs Juventinus and Maximus, who were 



26 JANUARY. 

crowned with martyrdom. On their birthday, St. 
John Chrysostom preached a sermon to his people. 
At Clermont, in Auvergne, the Saints Projectus, 
bishop, and Marinus, a man of God, who were mur- 
dered by the leading men of that city.&mdash;Also, the 
holy martyrs Donatus, Sabinus, and Agape.&mdash;At 
Tomis, in Scythia, St. Bretannion, bishop, who by 
his great sanctity, and his zeal for the Catholic 
faith, shone in the Church, under the Arian emperor 
Valens, whom he opposed with fortitude.&mdash;At Arras, 
in France, St. Poppo, abbot, renowned for miracles. 



Cfie Ctoentp^fetft Dap of Januarp, 

A T Smyrna, the birthday of St. Polycarp, a disciple 
^ of the Apostle St. John, who consecrated him 
bishop of that city and Primate of all Asia. After- 
wards, under Marcus Antoninus and Lucius Aure- 
lius Commodus, whilst the proconsul was sitting in 
judgment, and all the people in the amphitheatre 
were clamoring against him, he was condemned to 
the flames. But as he received no injury from them, 
he was transpierced with a sword, and thus received 
the crown of martyrdom. With him suffered in the 
same city twelve others from Philadelphia.&mdash;At 
Hippo Regius, in Africa, the holy bishop Theogenes 
and thirty-six others, who, despising temporal death, 
obtained the crown of eternal life in the persecution 



JANUARY. 27 

of Valerian.&mdash;At Bethlehem of Juda, the demise of 
St. Paula, widow, mother of St. Eustochium, virgin 
of Christ, who abandoned her worldly prospects, 
though she was descended from a noble line of sena- 
tors, distributed her goods to the poor, and retired 
to the manger of our Lord, where, adorned with 
many virtues, and crowned with a long martyrdom, 
she departed for the kingdom of heaven. Her ad- 
mirable life was written by St. Jerome.&mdash;In the 
diocese of Paris, the saintly queen Bathildis, illus- 
trious by her sanctity and glorious miracles. 



Cjbe Ctoemp*0etoentf) Dag of 

A T Constantinople, St. John, bishop, who was sur- 
^ named Chrysostom, on account of his golden flow 
of eloquence. He greatly promoted the interests of 
the Christian religion by his preaching and exem- 
plary life, and after many toils, closed his life in 
banishment. His sacred body was brought to Con- 
stantinople on this day, in the reign of Theodosius 
the younger; it was afterwards taken to Rome and 
placed in the basilica of the Prince of the Apostles. 
This illustrious preacher of the Word of God Pius X. 
declared and appointed heavenly patron of sacred 
orators.&mdash;At Sora, St. Julian, martyr, who, being 
arrested in the persecution of Antoninus, was be- 
headed, because a pagan temple had fallen to the 



28 JANUARY. 

ground whilst he was tortured. Thus did he win the 
crown of martyrdom.&mdash;In Africa, St. Avitus, mar- 
tyr.&mdash;In the same country, the holy martyrs, Datius, 
Reatrus, and their companions, who suffered in the 
persecution of the Vandals.&mdash;Also, the holy martyrs 
Dativus, Julian, Vincent, and twenty-seven others. 
At Eome, St. Vitalian, pope.&mdash;At Le Mans, the de- 
mise of St. Julian, the first bishop of that city, who 
was sent thither by St. Peter to preach the Gospel. 
In the monastery of Bobacum, St. Maur, abbot.&mdash;At 
Brixen, St. Angela Merici, virgin, foundress of the 
Order of the Nuns of St. Ursula, whose principal 
aim is to direct young girls in the ways of the 
Lord. By an indult of Pius VII. her feast is cele- 
brated on the 31st of May. 



Cfte Ctoentp-eigfitf) Dap of January 

A T Rome, the second feast of St. Agnes.&mdash;In the 
^ same place, St. Flavian, martyr, who suffered 
under Diocletian.&mdash;At Apollonia, the holy martyrs 
Thyrsus, Leucius, and Callinicus, who were made 
to undergo various torments in the time of the em- 
peror Decius. Thyrsus and Callinicus consummated 
their martyrdom by being beheaded; Leucius, being 
called by a heavenly voice, yielded his soul to God. 
In Thebais, the holy martyrs Leonides and his com- 
panions, who obtained the palm of martyrdom in 



JANUARY. 29 

the time of Diocletian.&mdash;At Alexandria, the com- 
memoration of many holy martyrs, who, whilst they 
were at Mass in the church on this day, were put to 
death in various manners by the followers of Syrian, 
an Arian general.&mdash;Also, St. Cyril, bishop of the 
same city, a most celebrated defender of the Catholic 
faith, who rested in peace with a great reputation 
for learning and sanctity.&mdash;At Saragossa, St. Vale- 
rius, bishop.&mdash;At Cuenca, in Spain, the birthday of 
St. Julian, bishop, who went to his God with the 
reputation of working miracles, after bestowing the 
goods of the Church on the poor, and, like the 
Apostles, supporting himself by the work of his 
hands.&mdash;In the monastery of Rheims, the demise of 
a holy priest named John, a man of God.&mdash;In Pales- 
tine, St. James, a hermit, who hid himself a long 
time in a sepulchre to do penance for a fault he had 
committed, and being celebrated for miracles, de- 
parted for heaven. 



Cfte Ctoemp*nimj) Dap of 3fanuarg, 

A T Lyons, in France, St. Francis of Sales, bishop 
of Geneva, confessor and Doctor of the Church, 
who is mentioned on the 28th of December.&mdash;At 
Rome, on the Nomentan road, the birthday of the 
holy martyrs Papius and Maurus, soldiers under the 
emperor Diocletian.&mdash;At their first confession of 



30 JANUARY. 

Christ their mouths were bruised with stones and 
they were thrown into prison by order of Laodicius, 
prefect of the city. Afterwards they were beaten 
with rods and with leaded whips until they ex- 
pired.&mdash;At Perugia, in the time of Marcus Aurelius, 
St. Constantius, bishop and martyr, who together 
with his companions, received the crown of martyr- 
dom for the defense of the faith.&mdash;At Edessa, in 
Syria, the holy martyrs Sarbelius and his sister 
Barbea, who were baptized by the blessed bishop 
Barsimseus, and crowned with martyrdom in the 
persecution of Trajan, under the governor Lysias. 
In the territory of Troyes, St. Sabinian, martyr, who 
was beheaded for the faith of Christ by the command 
of the emperor Aurelian.&mdash;At Milan, St. Aquilinus, 
priest, who was crowned with martyrdom by having 
his throat pierced with a sword by the Arians.&mdash;At 
Treves, the demise of the blessed bishop Valerius, 
disciple of the apostle St. Peter.&mdash;At Bourges, St. 
Sulpicius Severus, bishop, distinguished by his vir- 
tues and erudition. 

* 



Cf)e C&irtiet!) Da? of 3fanuarp, 

A T Rome, St. Martina, virgin and martyr, who is 
^ commemorated on the first day of this month. 
At Antioch, the passion of the blessed priest Hippo- 
lytus, who, for a short time deceived by the Nova- 
tian schismatics, was converted by the grace of 



JANUARY! 31 

Christ and returned to the unity of the Church, for 
which and in which he afterwards underwent a glo- 
rious martyrdom. Being asked by the schismatics 
which was the better side, he repudiated the doctrine 
of Novatus, and affirming that the faith ought to be 
professed which the Chair of Peter taught, he pre- 
sented his neck to the executioners.&mdash;In Africa, the 
passion of the holy martyrs Felician, Philappian, 
and one hundred and twenty-four others.&mdash;At 
Edessa, in Syria, in the reign of Trajan, St. Barsi- 
ma3us, bishop, who converted many Gentiles to the 
faith, sent them before him to be crowned, and fol- 
lowed them with the palm of martyrdom.&mdash;In the 
same place, St. Barsen, bishop, renowned for the 
gift of curing diseases. For the Catholic faith, he 
was banished by the Arian emperor Valens into the 
remotest parts of that country, and there ended his 
days.&mdash;Also, blessed Alexander, a man of venerable 
aspect and advanced age, who was apprehended in 
the persecution of Decius and after gloriously and 
repeatedly confessing the faith, gave up his soul to 
God in the midst of torments.&mdash;At Jerusalem, the 
birthday of St. Matthias, bishop, of whom are re- 
lated wonders and actions inspired by faith. After 
having endured many trials for Christ under Adrian, 
he passed away in peace.&mdash;At Rome, pope St. Felix, 
who labored much for the Catholic faith.&mdash;At Pavia, 
St. Armentarius, bishop and confessor.&mdash;In the mon- 
astery of Maubeuge, in Hainaut, St. Aldegundes, a 



32 JANUARY. 

virgin, who lived in the time of king Dagobert.&mdash;At 
Milan, St. Savina, a most religious woman, who 
went to rest in the Lord whilst praying at the tomb 
of the holy martyrs Nabor and Felix.&mdash;At Viterbo, 
the holy virgin Hyacintha de Mariscotti, a nun of 
the Third Order of St. Francis, distinguished for the 
virtues of penance and charity. She was inscribed 
among the Blessed by Benedict XIII., and among 
the Saints by Pius VII. 



Cfte CJnrtpsfirgt Dap of 3fantiarp, 

A T Barcelona, in Spain, St. Peter Nolasco, confes- 
^ sor, who slept in the Lord on the 25th of Decem- 
ber.&mdash;At Rome, on the road to Ostia, the holy mar- 
tyrs Cyrus and John, who were beheaded after suf- 
fering many torments for the name of Christ.&mdash;At 
Alexandria, in the time of the emperor Decius, the 
birthday of St. Metran, martyr, who, because he 
refused to utter blasphemous words at the bidding 
of the Pagans, was scourged until he was covered 
with bruises, and pierced through the face and eyes 
with sharp-pointed reeds. He was then driven out 
of the city, overwhelmed with stones and killed.&mdash;In 
the same place, the holy martyrs Saturninus, Thyr- 
sus and Victor.&mdash;In the same city, the holy martyrs 
Tharsicius, Zoticus, Cyriacus, and their compan- 
ions.&mdash;At Cyzicum, in Hellespont, St. Triphenes, 



JANUARY. 33 

martyr, who overcame various torments, but was 
finally killed by a bull, and thus merited the palm 
of martyrdom.&mdash;At Modena, St. Geminian, bishop, 
made illustrious by his miracles.&mdash;In the province 
of Milan, St. Julius, priest and confessor, in the 
reign of the emperor Theodosius.&mdash;At Borne, St. 
Marcella, a widow, whose meritorious deeds are re- 
lated by St. Jerome.&mdash;In the same place, blessed 
Louisa Albert onia, a Roman widow, of the Third 
Order of St. Francis, distinguished for her virtues. 
The same day, the translation of the evangelist St. 
Mark, when his sacred body was brought from the 
city of Alexandria, in Egypt, then occupied by bar- 
barians, to Venice, and with the greatest honors 
placed in the large church dedicated to his name. 







FEBRUARY. 

Cfte Jfftst Dap of jFe&ruarp, 

| HE birthday of St. Ignatius, bishop and mar- 
tyr, who governed the church of Antioch, the 
third after the apostle St. Peter. Being con- 
demned to the beasts in the persecution of 
Trajan, he was by that emperor sent to Rome in 
chains, where in the presence of the Senate he was 
subjected to the most frightful torments, and deliv- 
ered to the lions, which lacerated him with their 
teeth, and made of him a sacrifice to Christ.&mdash;At 
Smyrna, St. Pionius, priest and martyr. After writ- 
ing in defense of the Catholic faith, after suffering 
imprisonment in a loathsome dungeon, where by his 
exhortations he encouraged even to martyrdom many 
of his brethren, after enduring excruciating pains 
from being pierced with nails and laid on a hot fire, 
he ended his life happily for Christ. With him suf- 
fered fifteen others.&mdash;At Ravenna, the holy bishop 
Severus, whose great virtues deserved that he 
should be raised to the episcopate by the sign of a 
dove.&mdash;At Trois-Chateaux, in France, St. Paul, 
bishop, whose life was eminent for virtues, and 



FEBRUARY. 35 

whose death was made precious by miracles. The 
same day, St. Ephrem, deacon of the church of 
Edessa, in the time of the emperor Valens. After 
suffering many trials for the faith of Christ and 
gaining great renown for holiness and learning, he 
went to rest in the Lord.&mdash;In Ireland, St. Bridget, 
virgin. One day, at her touch, the wood of an altar 
immediately sprouted into life, in testimony of her 
virginity.&mdash;At Castel-Florentino, in Tuscany, the 
blessed virgin Verdiana, a recluse of the Order of 
Vallumbrosa. 



Cfte SeconD Dap of jfe&ruarp. 

mHE Purification of the Blessed Virgin Mary, 
called by the Greeks Hypapante (meeting) of the 
Lord.&mdash;At Rome, on the Salarian road, the passion 
of St. Apronian, a notary. Whilst he was yet a Gen- 
tile, and was leading St. Sisinius out of prison, to 
present him before the governor Laodicius, he heard 
a voice from heaven saying, "Come ye, the blessed of 
my Father, possess the kingdom prepared for you 
from the beginning of the world."&mdash;At once he be- 
lieved, was baptized, and after confessing our Lord, 
received sentence of death.&mdash;Also, at Rome, the holy 
martyrs Fortunatus, Felician, Firmus and Candidus. 
At Caesarea, in Palestine, St. Cornelius, a centu- 
rion, whom the blessed apostle Peter baptized, and 
raised to the episcopal dignity in that city.&mdash;At 



36 FEBRUARY. 

Orleans, the holy bishop Flosculus.&mdash;At Canterbury, 
in England, the birthday of St. Lawrence, bishop, 
who succeeded St. Augustine in the government of 
that church, and converted the king himself to the 
faith. 



Cfte CftirD Dap of jfe&ruarp, 

A T Sebaste, in Armenia, in the time of the governor 
^ Agricolaus, the passion of St. Blasius, bishop and 
martyr, who after working many miracles, was 
scourged a long time, and suspended on a tree where 
he was lacerated with iron combs. He was then 
imprisoned in a dark dungeon, thrown into a lake 
from which he came out safe, and finally, by order 
of the same judge, he and two boys were beheaded. 
Before him, seven women who were gathering the 
drops of his blood during his torture, were recog- 
nized as Christians, and after undergoing severe 
torments, were put to death by the sword.&mdash;In 
Africa, St. Celerinus, deacon, who was kept nineteen 
days in prison loaded with fetters, and confessed 
Christ gloriously in the midst of afflictions. By 
overcoming the enemy with invincible constancy, he 
showed to others the road to victory.&mdash;Also, the holy 
martyrs, Laurentinus, and Ignatius, his uncles, and 
Celerina, his grandmother, who had been previously 
crowned with martyrdom. They are highly praised 
in an epistle of St. Cyprian.&mdash;In the same country, 



FEBRUARY. 37 

the holy martyrs Felix, Symphronius, Hippolytus 
and their companions.&mdash;In the town of Gap, the 
holy bishops Tigides and Remedius.&mdash;At Lyons, the 
Saints Lupicinus and Felix, also bishops. The same 
day, St. Anscharius, bishop of Bremen, who con- 
verted the Swedes and the Danes to the faith of 
Christ. 



Cfte jfoim!) Dag of Jfe&ruatg, 

A T Florence, St. Andrew Corsini, bishop of Fie- 
^ soli, whose birthday is the 6th of January.&mdash;At 
Rome, St. Eutychius, who endured a glorious mar- 
trydom, and was buried in the cemetery of Callistus. 
Pope St. Damasus wrote an epitaph in verse for his 
tomb.&mdash;At Fossombrone, the holy martyrs Aquilinus, 
Geminus, Gelasius, Magnus and Donatus.&mdash;At 
Thmuis, in Egypt, in the persecution of Diocletian, 
the passion of blessed Philseas, bishop of that city, 
and of Philoromus, military tribune, who rejected 
the exhortations of their relations and friends to 
save themselves, offered themselves to death, and so 
merited immortal palms from God. With them was 
crowned with martyrdom a numberless multitude 
of the faithful of the same place, who followed the 
example of their pastor. The same day, St. Rem- 
bert, bishop of Bremen.&mdash;At Troyes, St. Aventin, 
confessor.&mdash;At Pelusium, in Egypt, St. Isidore, a 
monk renowned for merit and learning. The same 



38 FEBRUARY. 

day, St. Gilbert, confessor,&mdash;In the town of Ama 
trice, in the diocese of Rieti, the decease of St. Jo- 
seph of Leonissa, of the Order of Minorite Capu- 
chins, who suffered many afflictions from the Mahom- 
etans. As he was celebrated for his apostolic labors 
and miracles, he was placed on the list of holy con- 
fessors by the Sovereign Pontiff Benedict XIV. 



C6e jfiWb Dap of jfe&ruarp, 

4 T Catania, in Sicily, in the time of the emperor 
*** Decius and the judge Quinctian, the birthday of 
St. Agatha, virgin and martyr. After being buf- 
feted, imprisoned, tortured, racked, dragged over 
pieces of earthenware and burning coals, and hav- 
ing her breasts cut off, she consummated her 
sacrifice in prison while engaged in prayer.&mdash;In Pon- 
tus, during the persecution of Maximian, the com- 
memoration of many holy martyrs, some of whom 
had molten lead poured over them, others had sharp- 
pointed reeds thrust under their nails, and were 
oftentimes horribly tormented in many other ways. 
Thus, by their glorious passion, they deserved at the 
hands of God palms of victory and unfading crowns. 
At Alexandria, during the persecution of Decius, 
St. Isidore, martyr, who was beheaded for the faith 
of Christ by Numerian, general of the army.&mdash;In 
the kingdom of Japan, the passion of twenty-six 



FEBRUARY. 39 

martyrs, who, by being crucified for the Catholic 
faith, and pierced with lances, gloriously died in 
praising God and preaching that same faith. Pius 
IX. canonized them in 1862.&mdash;At Vienne, blessed 
Avitus, bishop and confessor, whose faith, labors 
and admirable learning protected France against 
the ravages of the Arian heresy.&mdash;At Brixen, the 
holy bishpos Genuinus and Albinus, whose lives were 
illustrious for miracles. 



Cfte Sfetft Dap of 



Festival of St. Titus, bishop and confessor. 
At Caesarea, in Cappadocia, the birthday of St. 
Dorothy, virgin and martyr, who was stretched on 
the rack, then a long time scourged with boughs of 
the palm-tree, and finally condemned to capital pun- 
ishment, under Sapricius, governor of that province. 
Her noble confession of Christ converted a lawyer 
named Theophilus, who was also tortured in a bar- 
barous manner, and finally put to death by the 
sword. The same day, the holy martyrs Saturninus, 
Theophilus, and Revocata.&mdash;At Emesa, in Phrenicia, 
in the time of the emperor Maximian, St. Silvanus, 
bishop, who, after having governed that church forty 
years, was delivered to the beasts with two other 
Christians, and having his limbs all mangled, re- 
ceived the palm of martyrdom.&mdash;At Clermont, in 



40 FEBRUARY. 

Auvergne, St. Antholiau, martyr. The same day, 
the holy bishops Vedastus and Amandus, who were 
illustrious by many miracles, both in life and death. 
The former governed the church of Arras, the latter 
that of Maestricht.&mdash;At Bologna, St. Guarinus, bishop 
of Palestrina and Cardinal, renowned for holiness 
of life. 



Cfie Setoentfi Dap of jfe&ruarp, 

fTIHE holy abbot Romuald, founder of the monks of 
-*- Camaldoli, whose birthday is the 19th of June. 
At London, in England, the birthday of the blessed 
bishop Augulus, who terminated his career by mar- 
tyrdom, and deserved to receive an eternal recom- 
pense.&mdash;In Phrygia, St. Adaucus, martyr, an Italian 
of noble birth, who was honored by the emperors 
with almost every dignity. Whilst he was still dis- 
charging the office of quaestor, he was judged worthy 
of the crown of martyrdom for his defence of the 
faith.&mdash;Also, many holy martyrs, inhabitants of the 
same city, whose leader was Adaucus, just named. 
As they were all Christians, and persisted in the 
confession of the faith, they were burned to death 
by the emperor Galerius Maximian.&mdash;At Heracles, 
in the reign of Licinius, St. Theodore, a military 
officer, who was beheaded, after undergoing many 
torments, and went victoriously to heaven.&mdash;In 
Egypt, St. Moses, a venerable bishop, who first led a 



FEBRUARY. 41 

solitary life in the desert, and being afterwards made 
bishop, at the request of Mauvia, queen of the Sara- 
cens, converted to the faith the greater part of that 
barbarous people, and, rich in merits, passed peace- 
fully to his reward.&mdash;At Lucca, in Tuscany, the de- 
mise of St. Eichard, king of England.&mdash;At Bologna, 
St. Juliana, widow. 



Cfte (ZEigfitft Dap of jFe&tuarp, 

OT. JOHN of Matha, confessor, founder of the 
^ Order of the Most Holy Trinity, for the redemp- 
tion of captives, who reposed in the Lord on the 
17th of December.&mdash;Also, St. Jerome 2Emiliani, con- 
fessor, founder of the Congregation of Somascha, 
who slept in the Lord on the 8th of this month. He 
was numbered among the Saints by Clement XIII., 
his feast being assigned to the 20th of July.&mdash;At 
Rome, the holy martyrs Paul, Lucius, and Cyria- 
cus.&mdash;In the Lesser Armenia, the birthday of the 
holy martyrs Denis, ^Emilian and Sebastian.&mdash;At 
Alexandria, under the emperor Decius, the martyr 
St. Cointha, whom the Pagans seized, led to the 
idols and urged to adore them. As she refused witli 
horror, they put her feet in chains, and dragged her 
through the streets of the city, mangling her body 
in a barbarous manner.&mdash;At Constantinople, the 
birthday of the holy martyrs, monks of the monas- 



42 FEBRUARY. 

tery of Dins, who, bringing the letter of pope St. 
Felix against Acacius, were barbarously killed for 
their defence of the Catholic faith.&mdash;In Persia, in 
the time of king Cabades, the commemoration of the 
holy martyrs, who were put to death by various 
kinds of torments on account of their faith in 
Christ.&mdash;At Pavia, the bishop St. Juventius, who 
strenuously labored in preaching the Gospel.&mdash;At 
Milan, the demise of St. Honoratus, bishop and con- 
fessor.&mdash;At Verdun, in France, St. Paul, a bishop 
renowned for miracles.&mdash;At Muret, near Limoges, 
the birthday of the abboc St. Stephen, founder of the 
Order of Grandmont, celebrated for his virtues and 
miracles.&mdash;In the monastery of Vallumbrosa, blessed 
Peter, cardinal and bishop of Albano, of the Congre- 
gation of Vallumbrosa, of the Order of St. Benedict, 
surnamed Igneus, because he passed through fire 
uninjured. 



H3intJ) Dap of jfe&ruatp, 

A T Alexandria, St. Cyril, bishop and doctor of the 
" church. He is mentioned on the 28th of Janu- 
ary.&mdash;In the same city, in the reign of Decius, the 
birthday of St. Apollonia, virgin, who had all her 
teeth plucked out by the persecutors; then having 
constructed and lighted a pyre, they threatened to 
burn her alive, unless she repeated certain impious 
words after them. Deliberating awhile with her- 



FEBRUARY. 43 

self, she suddenly slipped from their grasp, and 
feeling an inspiration of the Holy Ghost, rushed 
voluntarily into the fire which they had prepared. 
The very authors of her death were struck with ter- 
ror at the sight of a woman who was more willing 
to die than they to condemn her.&mdash;At Rome, the 
passion of the holy martyrs Alexander, and thirty- 
eight others crowned with him.&mdash;At Solum, in Cy- 
prus, the holy martyrs Ammonius and Alexander. 
At Antioch, under the emperor Valerian, St. Niceph- 
orus, martyr, who was beheaded and thus received 
the crown of martyrdom.&mdash;In Africa, in a village 
called Lemelis, the holy martyrs Primus and Dona- 
tus, deacons, who were killed by the Donatists for 
defending an altar in the church.&mdash;In the monastery 
of St. Vandrille, St. Ansbert, bishop of Rouen.&mdash;At 
Canossa, in Apulia, of St. Sabinus, bishop and con- 
fessor. 



Cfte Centf) Dap of JFe&ritarp, 

AN Mount Cassino, St. Scholastica, a virgin, whose 
^ soul her brother, St. Benedict, the abbot, saw 
leaving her body in the form of a dove, and ascending 
to heaven.&mdash;At Rome, the holy martyrs Zoticus, 
Irenaeus, Hyacinthus, and Amantius.&mdash;In the same 
place, on the Lavican road, ten holy soldiers, mar- 
tyrs.&mdash;Also at Rome, on the Appian way, St. Soteres, 
virgin and martyr, who was descended of a noble 



44 FEBRUARY. 

race, as St. Ambrose testifies, but for the love of 
Christ set at naught the consular and other dignities 
of her family. On her refusal to sacrifice to the 
gods, she was for a long time cruelly buffeted. After 
she had overcome various other torments, she was 
struck with the sword, and joyfully went to her 
heavenly spouse.&mdash;In Campania, St. Silvanus, bishop 
and confessor.&mdash;At Maleval, in the diocese of Siena, 
St. William, a hermit.&mdash;In the diocese of Roueu, 
St. Austreberta, a virgin renowned for miracles. 



Cfte (ZBIetoentft Dap of jFe&ruarp, 

{ T Lourdes, in France, the apparition of the 
^ Blessed Virgin Mary Immaculate.&mdash;In Africa, 
during the persecution of Diocletian, the birthday 
of the holy martyrs Saturninus, a priest, Dativus, 
Felix, Ampelius, and their companions. They had, 
as was their custom, assembled for Mass, when they 
were seized by the soldiers and put to death, under 
the proconsul Anolinus.&mdash;In Numidia, in the same 
persecution, the commemoration of many holy mar- 
tyrs, who, refusing after their apprehension to de- 
liver the holy Scriptures, conformably to the im- 
perial edict, were given over to most painful tor- 
ments and slain.&mdash;At Adrianople, the holy martyrs 
Lucius, bishop, and his companions. Lucius suf- 
fered much from the Arians under Constantius, and 



FEBRUARY. 45 

terminated his martyrdom in prison. The others, 
who were among the principal citizens, refusing to 
communicate with the Arians, just then anathema- 
tized in the Council of Sardica, were condemned to 
capital punishment by Count Philagrius.&mdash;At Lyons, 
St. Desiderius, bishop of Vienne, and martyr.&mdash;At 
Ravenna, St. Calocerus, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At 
Milan, St. Lazarus, bishop.&mdash;At Capua, St. Castren- 
sis, bishop.&mdash;At Chateau-Landon, St. Severin, abbot 
of the monastery of Agaunum, by whose prayers the 
Christian king Clovis was delivered from a long sick- 
ness.&mdash;In Egypt, St. Jonas, a monk, eminent for 
virtues. 



Cfte Ctoelftft Dap of 

TN Tuscany, on Mount Senario, the seven Holy 
Founders of the Order of Servites of the Blessed 
Virgin Mary. After a most austere kind of life, they 
died a death precious in the Lord, with a reputation 
for merits and prodigies. As one spirit of true 
fraternal love united them in life, and as the people 
joined them together in the same veneration after 
death, Leo. XIII. placed them together in the cata- 
logue of the Saints.&mdash;At Barcelona, in Spain, in the 
time of the emperor Diocletian, St. Eulalia, virgin, 
who, being racked, torn with iron hooks, cast into 
the fire, and crucified, received the glorious crown 
of martyrdom.&mdash;In Africa, St. Damian, soldier and 



46 FEBRUARY. 

martyr.&mdash;At Carthage, the holy martyrs Modestus 
and Julian.&mdash;At Benevento, St. Modestus, deacon 
and martyr.&mdash;At Alexandria, the holy children Mo- 
destus and Ammonius.&mdash;At Antioch, St. Meletius, 
a bishop, who often suffered exile for the Catholic 
faith, and finally died at Constantinople and went 
to his reward. His virtues have been highly extolled 
by St. John Chrysostom and St. Gregory of Nyssa. 
At Constantinople, St. Anthony, a bishop in the 
time of the emperor Leo VI.&mdash;At Verona, St. Gau- 
dentius, bishop and confessor. 



Cfie C&irteent!) Dap of Jfe&ruarp, 

A T Antioch, the holy prophet Agabus, of whom 
** mention is made by St. Luke, in the Acts of the 
Apostles.&mdash;At Ravenna, in the time of the emperor 
Decius, and the governor Quinctian, the Saints 
Fusca, virgin, and her nurse, Maura, who endured 
many afflictions, were transpierced with a sword, 
and thus ended their martyrdom.&mdash;At Meletine, in 
Armenia, in the persecution of the same Decius, St. 
Polyeuctus, martyr, who, after many sufferings, ob- 
tained the crown of martyrdom.&mdash;At Lyons, St. 
Julian, martyr.&mdash;At Todi, St. Benignus, martyr. 
At Rome, pope St. Gregory II., who strenuously 
opposed the impiety of Leo the Isaurian, and sent 
St. Boniface to preach the Gospel in Germany.&mdash;At 



FEBRUARY. 47 

Angers, the demise of the holy bishop Lucinius, a 
man venerable for his sanctity.&mdash;At Lyons, St. 
Stephen, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Rieti, the abbot 
St. Stephen, a man of wonderful patience, at whose 
death, as is related by the blessed pope Gregory, the 
holy angels were present and visible to all.&mdash;At 
Prato, in Tuscany, St. Catharine de Ricci, a Floren- 
tine virgin, of the Order of St. Dominic, replenished 
with heavenly gifts, whom pope Benedict XIV. in- 
scribed on the catalogue of holy virgins. She died 
rich in virtues and merits on the 2d of this month, 
but her festival is celebrated on this day. 



Cfte jFoutteentfi Dap of 

A T Rome, on the Flaminian road, in the time of 
-" the emperor Claudius, the birthday of blessed 
Valentine, priest and martyr, who after having cured 
and instructed many persons, was beaten with clubs 
and beheaded.&mdash;Also, at Rome, the holy martyrs 
Vitalis, Felicula, and Zeno.&mdash;At Teramo, St. Valen- 
tine, bishop and martyr, who was scourged, com- 
mitted to prison, and as he remained unshaken in 
his faith, was taken out of his dungeon in the dead 
of night and beheaded by order of Placidus, prefect 
of the city.&mdash;In the same place, the holy martyrs 
Proculus, Ephebus and Apollonius, who, whilst 
watching by the body of St. Valentine, were arrested 



48 FEBRUARY. 

and put to the sword by the command of the ex r 
consul Leontius.&mdash;At Alexandria, the holy martyrs 
Bassus, Anthony, and Protolicus, who were cast into 
the sea.&mdash;Also, the holy martyrs Cyrion, priest, Bas- 
sian, lector, Agatho, exorcist, and Moses, who per- 
ished in the flames and took their flight to heaven. 
In the same city, the Saints Denis and Ammonius, 
who were beheaded.&mdash;At Ravenna, St. Eleuchadius, 
bishop and confessor.&mdash;In Bithynia, the abbot St. 
Auxentius.&mdash;At Sorrento, St. Anthony, abbot, who, 
when the monastery' of Monte Cassino was devas- 
tated by the Lombards, withdrew into a solitude of 
the neighborhood, where, celebrated for holiness, he 
passed calmly to his repose in God. His body is 
daily glorified by many miracles, and particularly 
by the deliverance of possessed persons. 



Cfte Jftfteentj) Dap of 

A T Brescia, in the time of the emperor Adrian, the 
^ birthday of the holy martyrs Faustinus and Jo- 
vita, who received the triumphant crown of martyr- 
dom after many glorious combats for the faith of 
Christ.&mdash;At Rome, St. Craton, martyr. A short 
time after being baptized w T ith his wife and all his 
household by the holy bishop Valentine, he was put 
to death with them.&mdash;At Teramo, St. Agape, virgin 
and martyr.&mdash;Also, the birthday of the holy martyrs 



FEBRUARY. 49 

Saturninus, Castulus, Magnus, and Lucius.&mdash;At Vai- 
son, in France, St. Quinidius, bishop, whose death 
was precious in the sight of God, as is shown by fre- 
quent miracles.&mdash;At Capua, St. Decorosus, bishop 
and confessor.&mdash;In the province of Valeria, St. 
Severus, a priest, of whom St. Gregory says, that 
by his tears he recalled a dead man to life.&mdash;At An- 
tioch, St. Joseph, deacon.&mdash;At Clermont, in Au- 
vergne, St. Georgia, virgin. 



Cfte Sfeteemfi Dap of jFe&ruatg, 



rrHE birthday of blessed Onesimus, concerning 
whom the apostle St. Paul wrote to Philemon. 
He made him bishop of Ephesus after St. Timothy, 
and committed to him the office of preaching. Be- 
ing led a prisoner to Rome, and stoned to death for 
the faith of Christ, he was buried in that city; but 
his body was afterwards carried to the place where 
he had been bishop.&mdash;At Cumse, in Campania, the 
Translation of St. Juliana, virgin and martyr. 
Under the emperor Maximian, she was first severely 
scourged by her own father, Africanus, then made 
to suffer many torments by the prefect, Evilasius, 
whom she had refused to marry. Later being thrown 
into prison, she encountered the evil spirit in a 
visible manner. Finally, as a fiery furnace and a 
caldron of boiling oil could do her no injury, she 
terminated her martyrdom by decapitation.&mdash;In 



50 FEBRUARY. 

Egypt, St. Julian, martyr, with five thousand other 
Christians.&mdash;At Csesarea, in Palestine, the holy mar- 
tyrs Elias, Jeremias, Isaias, Samuel, and Daniel, 
Egyptians, who of their own accord served the con- 
fessors of Christ condemned to labor in the mines 
of Cilicia, but were arrested on their return, and 
after being cruelly tortured by the governor Firmil- 
ian, under the emperor Galerius Maximian, were put 
to the sword. After them, St. Porphyry, servant of 
the martyr Pamphilus, and St. Seleucus, a Cappa- 
docian, who had been victorious in several combats, 
being again exposed to torments, won the crown of 
martyrdom, the one by fire, the other by the sword. 
At Arezzo, in Tuscany, blessed Gregory X., a native 
of Piacenza, who was elected Sovereign Pontiff while 
he was archdeacon of Liege. He held the second 
Council of Lyons, received the Greeks into the unity 
of the Church, appeased discords among Christians, 
made generous efforts for the recovery of the Holy 
Land, and governed the Church in the most holy 
manner.&mdash;At Brescia, St. Faustinus, bishop and 
confessor. 



Cfie Setoenteentf) Dag of 

AT Rome, the passion of St. Faustinus, whom 
** forty-four others followed to receive the crown 
of martyrdom.&mdash;In Persia, during the persecution 
of Decius, the birthday of blessed Polychronius, 



FEBRUARY. 51 

bishop of Babylon, who, being struck in the mouth 
with stones, stretched out his hands, lifted up his 
eyes to heaven, and expired.&mdash;At Concordia, the holy 
martyrs Donatus, Secundian, and Romulus, with 
eighty-six others, partakers of the same crown.&mdash;At 
Caesarea, in Palestine, St. Theodulus, an aged man, 
in the service of the governor Firmilian. Moved by 
the example of the martyrs, he confessed Christ with 
constancy, was fastened to a cross, and thus by a 
noble victory merited the palm of martyrdom.&mdash;In 
the same place, St. Julian, a Cappadocian, who, be- 
cause he had kissed the relics of the martyrs, was 
denounced as a Christian, and led to the governor, 
who had him consumed with a slow fire.&mdash;In the 
territory of Terouanne, St. Silvinus, bishop of Tou- 
louse.&mdash;In Ireland, St. Fintan, priest and confessor. 
At Florence, blessed Alexius Falconieri, confessor, 
one of the seven Founders of the Order of the Ser- 
vites of the blessed Virgin Mary, who, in the one 
hundred and tenth year of his age, terminated his 
blessed career in the consoling presence of Jesus 
Christ and the angels. 



Cfte OBigftteentft Dap of jFe&ruarp. 

A T Jerusalem, the birthday of St. Simeon, bishop 
" and martyr, who is said to have been the son of 
Cleophas, and a relative of the Saviour according to 
the flesh. He was consecrated bishop of Jerusalem 



52 FEBRUARY. 

after St. James, the brother of our Lord, and in the 
persecution of Trajan, after having endured many 
torments, he consummated his martyrdom. All who 
were present, even the judge himself, were astonished 
that a man one hundred and twenty years of age 
could bear the torment of crucifixion with such for- 
titude and constancy.&mdash;At Ostia, the holy martyrs 
Maximus and his brother Claudius, and Praepedigna, 
the wife of Claudius, with her two sons Alexander 
and Cutias, all of an illustrious family. By the order 
of Diocletian, they were apprehended and sent into 
exile. Afterwards being burned alive, they offered 
to God the sweet-smelling sacrifice of martyrdom. 
Their remains were cast into the river, but the 
Christians found them and buried them near that 
city.&mdash;In Africa, the holy martyrs Lucius, Sylvanus, 
Rutulus, Classicus, Secundinus, Fructulus, and 
Maximus.&mdash;At Constantinople, the holy bishop Fla- 
vian, who for having defended the Catholic faith at 
Ephesus, was buffeted and kicked by the partisans 
of the impious Dioscorus, and being banished, ended 
his life within three days.&mdash;At Toledo, St. Helladius, 
bishop and confessor. 



Cfte jQineteentf) Dap of jFe&ritarp, 

I T Rome, the birthday of St. Gabinus, priest and 
" martyr, brother of the blessed pope .Caius. Be- 
ing loaded with chains and kept a long time in prison 



FEBRUARY. 53 

by Diocletian, he obtained the joys of heaven by a 
precious death.&mdash;In Africa, the holy martyrs Pub- 
lius, Julian, Marcellus, and others.&mdash;In Palestine, 
the commemoration of the holy monks and other 
martyrs, who were barbarously massacred for the 
faith of Christ by the Saracens, under their leader 
Almondhar.&mdash;At Jerusalem, St. Zambdas, bishop. 
At Soli, St. Auxibius, bishop.&mdash;At Benevento, St. 
Barbatus, a bishop illustrious for sanctity, who con- 
verted the Lombards and their chief to the faith of 
Christ.&mdash;At Milan, St. Mansuetus, bishop and con- 
fessor. 



C&e Ctoentietft Dag of jFe&ruatg, 

A T Tyre, in Phoenicia, the commemoration of many 
^ blessed martyrs, whose number is known to God 
alone. Under the emperor Diocletian, they were 
put to death after a long and varied series of tor- 
ments by the military commander Veturius. They 
were first lacerated with whips, and then delivered 
to several kinds of beasts. But, through the interpo- 
sition of Providence, remaining unhurt, they con- 
summated their martyrdom by the torment of fire 
and by the sword. This glorious multitude were 
incited to victory by the bishops Tyrannic, Silvanus, 
Peleus, and Nilus, and the priest Zenobius, who, 
together with them, won the palm of martyrdom by 



54 FEBRUARY. 

a successful combat.&mdash;In the island of Cyprus, the 
holy martyrs Pothamius and Nemesius.&mdash;At Con- 
stantinople, St. Eleutherius, bishop and martyr. 
In Persia, in the time of king Sapor, the birthday 
of St. Sadoth, bishop, and one hundred and twenty- 
eight others, who refused to adore the sun, and by 
a cruel death purchased for themselves bright 
crowns.&mdash;At Catania, in Sicily, St. Leo, bishop, illus- 
trious for virtues and miracles. The same day, St. 
Eucherius, bishop of Orleans, whose miracles in- 
creased in proportion to the slanders of the envious. 
At Tournai, in Belgium, St. Eleutherius, bishop 
and confessor. 



Cfie Ctoentp'fim Dap of JFe&ruarp, 

T N Sicily, in the reign of Diocletian, the birthday 
- of seventy-nine holy martyrs, who deserved by 
various torments to receive an immortal crown for 
the confession of their faith.&mdash;At Adrumetum, in 
Africa, during the persecution of the Vandals, the 
holy martyrs Verulus, Secundinus, Syricius, Felix, 
Servulus, Saturninus, Fortunatus, and sixteen oth- 
ers, who were crowned with martyrdom for the 
confession of the Catholic faith.&mdash;At Scythopolis, in 
Palestine, St. Severian, bishop and martyr.&mdash;At 
Damascus, St. Peter Mavimenus, who was killed by 
some Arabs who visited him in his sickness, because 



FEBRUARY. 55 



he said to them: "Whoever does not embrace the 
Christian and Catholic faith is lost, like your false 
prophet Mahomet."&mdash;At Ravenna, St. Maximian, 
bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Metz, St. Felix, bishop. 
At Brescia, St. Paterius, bishop. 



Cf)e Ctoemg'SeconO Dap of 

THE Chair of St. Peter at Antioch, where the dis- 
ciples were first called Christians.&mdash;At Hierap- 
olis, in Phrygia, blessed Papias, bishop of that city, 
who had been, with St. Polycarp, a disciple of St. 
John in his old age.&mdash;At Salamis, in Cyprus, St. 
Aristion, who the same Papias says was one of the 
seventy-two disciples of Christ.&mdash;In Arabia, the com- 
memoration of many holy martyrs who were bar- 
barously put to death under the emperor Galerius 
Maximian.&mdash;At Alexandria, St. Abilius, bishop, who 
was the second pastor of that city after St. Mark, 
and administered his charge with eminent piety. 
At Vienna, St. Paschasius, bishop, celebrated for his 
learning and holy life.&mdash;At Cortona, in Tuscany, St. 
Margaret, of the Third Order of St. Francis, whose 
body miraculously remained incorrupt for more 
than four centuries, giving forth a sweet odor, and 
producing frequent miracles. It is honored in that 
place with great devotion. 



56 FEBRUARY. 

C&e CtoentH&irD Dap of jfe&ruatp* 

(In leap-year, the Vigil of St. Matthias is not an- 
nounced today, because it is transferred to the 2Ath.) 

npELE vigil of the apostle St. Matthias.&mdash;At Faenza, 
-* St. Peter Dainian, Cardinal bishop of Ostia, and 
Doctor of the Church, celebrated for learning and 
sanctity.&mdash;At Sirmium, St. Sirenus, monk and mar- 
tyr. By order of the emperor Maximian, he was 
arrested and beheaded, for confessing that he was 
a Christian.&mdash;In the same place, the birthday of 
seventy-two holy martyrs, who ended the combat of 
martyrdom in that city, and took possession of the 
everlasting kingdom.&mdash;At Rome, St. Poly carp, priest, 
who with blessed Sebastian converted many to the 
faith of Christ, and by his exhortations led them to 
the glory of martyrdom.&mdash;In the city of Astorga, 
St. Martha, virgin and martyr, under the emperor 
Decius, and the proconsul Paternus.&mdash;At Constan- 
tinople, St. Lazarus, a monk whom the Iconoclast 
emperor Theophilus ordered to be put to the tor- 
ture for having painted holy images. His hand was 
burned with ia hot iron, but being healed by the 
power of God, he painted anew the holy pictures 
that had been defaced, and finally rested in peace. 
At Berscia, St. Felix, bishop.&mdash;At Seville, in Spain, 
St. Florentius, confessor.&mdash;At Todi, St. Romana, 
virgin, who was baptized by pope St. Sylvester. She 
led a heavenly life in caves and dens, and wrought 



FEBRUARY. 57 

glorious miracles.&mdash;In England, St. Milburga, virgin, 
daughter of the king of Mercia. 

(In leap-year, the 2Ath of February is announced 
in this manner: "The twenty-fourth day of Febru- 
ary. The vigil of the apostle St. Matthias.&mdash;Also, 
the commemoration of many holy martyrs, confes- 
sors and virgins." On the 25th, read: (( The twenty- 
fifth day of February," and then: "In Judea, etc." 
as marked for the 



C&e CtoetttHourt!) 3Dap of jFe&ruarp. 

TN Judea, the birthday of the Apostle St. Matthias, 
- who was chosen by lot by the apostles after the 
Ascension of our Lord in the place of the traitor 
Judas, and suffered martyrdom for preaching the 
Gospel.&mdash;At Rome, St. Primitiva, martyr.&mdash;At 
Caesarea, in Cappadocia, St. Sergius, martyr, of 
whose life a beautiful account still exists.&mdash;In 
Africa, the holy martyrs Montanus, Lucius, Julian, 
Victoricus, Flavian, and their companions. They 
were disciples of St. Cyprian, and suffered martyr- 
dom under the emperor Valerian.&mdash;At Rouen, the 
passion of St. Prsetextatus, bishop and martyr. 
At Treves, St. Modestus, bishop and confessor.&mdash;In 
England, St. Ethelbert, king of Kent, converted to 
the faith of Christ by St. Augustine, bishop of the 



58 FEBRUARY. 

English.&mdash;At Jerusalem, the first finding of the head 
of our Lord's Precursor. 



Cfte etoentgsftftf) Dap of Jfe&ruatg, 

TN Egypt, in the time of the emperor Maximian, 
the birthday of the holy martyrs Victorinus, 
Victor, Nicephorus, Claudian, Dioscorus, Serapion, 
and Papias, under the emperor Numerian. The first 
two, having borne with constancy torments of refined 
cruelty for the confession of the faith, were beheaded. 
Nicephorus, after having been laid on a heated grid- 
iron and on the fire, was hacked into small pieces. 
Claudian and Dioscorus were burned alive; Serap- 
ion and Papias were killed with the sword.&mdash;In 
Africa, the holy martyrs Donatus, Justus, Herena, 
and their companions.&mdash;At Rome, the birthday of 
pope St. Felix III., great-grandfather of St. Gregory 
the Great, who relates of him that he appeared to 
St. Tharsilla, his niece, and called her to the king- 
dom of heaven.&mdash;At Constantinople, St. Tharasius, 
bishop, a man of great erudition and piety, to whom 
is addressed an epistle of pope Adrian I., in defence 
of holy images.&mdash;At Nazianzus, St. Caesarius, whom 
his brother blessed Gregory the Theologian, says he 
saw among the hosts of the Blessed. 



FEBRUARY. 59 

Cfte Ctoentp*0i*tf) Dap of jFe&rtiatp, 

A T Pergen, in Pamphylia, during the persecution 
of Decius, the birthday of the blessed bishop Nes- 
tor, who, praying night and day for the preservation 
of the flock of Christ, was put under arrest. As he 
confessed the name of the Lord with great joy and 
freedom, he was most cruelly tortured on the rack, 
by order of the governor Pollio, and still courage- 
ously proclaiming that he would ever remain faith- 
ful to Christ, he was suspended on a cross ; and thus 
triumphantly went to heaven.&mdash;In the same place, 
the passion of Saints Papias, Diodorus, Conon, and 
Claudian, who preceded St. Nestor to martyrdom. 
Also, the holy martyrs Fortunatus, Felix, and 
twenty-seven others.&mdash;At Alexandria, the bishop St. 
Alexander, an aged man held in great honor, who 
succeeded blessed Peter as bishop of that city. He 
expelled from the Church Arius, one of his priests, 
tainted with heretical impiety, and convicted by 
divine truth, and subsequently was one of the three 
hundred and eighteen Fathers who condemned him 
in the Council of Nicaea.&mdash;At Bologna, the bishop St. 
Faustinian, whose preaching strengthened and mul- 
tiplied the faithful of that Church, which had been 
much afflicted during the persecution of Diocletian. 
At Gaza, in Palestine, in the time of the emperor 
Arcadius, St. Porphyry, bishop, who overthrew the 
idol Marnas and its temple, and after many suffer- 
ings, went to rest in the Lord.&mdash;At Florence, St. 



60 FEBRUARY. 

Andrew, bishop and confessor.&mdash;In the territory of 
Arcis, St. Victor, confessor, whose enlogy was writ- 
ten by St. Bernard. 



Cfie Ctoemp*0etoent6 Dap of jFe&tuatp, 

A T Home, the birthday of the holy martyrs Alex- 
^ ander, Abundius, Antigonus, and Fortunatus. 
At Alexandria, the passion of St. Julian, mar- 
tyr. Although he was so afflicted with the gout 
that he could neither walk, not stand, he was taken 
before the judge with two servants, who carried him 
in a chair. One of these denied his faith, but the 
other, named Eunus, persevered with Julian in con- 
fessing Christ. Both were set on camels, led 
through the whole city, scourged, and burned alive 
in the presence of the people.&mdash;In the same city, St. 
Besas, a soldier, who was denounced to the judge, 
because he had reproved those who insulted the 
martyrs just mentioned. As he continued to pro- 
claim his attachment to the faith, he was beheaded* 
At Seville, in Spain, the birthday of St. Leander, 
bishop of that city, by whose preaching and labors, 
with the assistance of King Recared, the nation of 
the Visigoths was converted from the Arian impiety 
to the Catholic faith.&mdash;At Constantinople, in the 
time of the emperor Leo, the holy confessors Basil 
and Procopius, who fought courageously for the 



FEBRUARY. 61 

worship of holy images.&mdash;At Lyons, St. Baldomer. 
a man of God, whose tomb is made illustrious by 
frequent miracles. 



Cfte Ctoetttg*eig!)tJ) Dap of jfe&ruarp, 

A T Rome, the birthday of the holy martyrs Maca 
^ rius, Rufinus, Justus, and Theophilus.&mdash;At Alex 
andria, the passion of the Saints Cserealis, Pupulus, 
Caius, and Serapion.&mdash;In the same city, in the reign 
of the emperor Valerian, the commemoration of the 
holy priests, deacons, and other Christians in great 
number, who encountered death most willingly by 
nursing the victims of a most deadly pestilence then 
raging. They have been generally revered as mar- 
tyrs by the pious faithful.&mdash;In the territory of Lyons, 
on Mount Jura, the demise of St. Romanus, abbot, 
who was the first to lead the eremitical life there. 
His reputation for virtues and miracles brought 
under his guidance numerous monks.&mdash;At Pavia, the 
translation, from the island of Sardinia, of the bod^ 
of St. Augustine, bishop, by Luitprand, king of the 
Lombards. 




MARCH. 

Cfte JFim Dap of 

|T ROME, two hundred and sixty holy mar- 
tyrs, condemned for the name of Christ. 
Claudius ordered them to dig sand beyond 
the Salarian gate, and then to be shot dead 
with arrows by soldiers in the amphitheatre.&mdash;Also, 
the birthday of the holy martyrs Leo,Donatus, Abun 
dantius, Nicephorus, and nine others.&mdash;At Mar- 
seilles, the holy martyrs Hermes and Adrian.&mdash;At 
Heliopolis, in the persecution of Trajan, St. Eudoxia, 
martyr, -who, being baptized by bishop Theodotus 
and fortified for the combat, was put to the sword 
by the command of the governor Vincent, and thus 
received the crown of martyrdom. The same day, 
St. Antonina, martyr. For deriding the gods of the 
Gentiles, in the persecution of Diocletian, she was, 
after various torments, shut up in a cask and 
drowned in a marsh near the city of Cea.&mdash;At 
Kaiserswerth, the bishop St. Swidbert, who, in the 
time of pope Sergius, preached the Gospel to the 
inhabitants of Friesland, Holland, and to other Ger- 
manic peoples.&mdash;At Angers, St. Albinus, bishop and 



MARCH. 63 

confessor, a man of most eminent virtue and piety. 
At Le Mans, St. Siviard, abbot.&mdash;At Perugia, the 
translation of St. Herculanus, bishop and martyr, 
who was beheaded by order of Totila, king of the 
Goths. Forty days after his decapitation his body, 
as pope St. Gregory relates, was found as sound and 
as firmly joined to the head as if it had never been 
touched by the sword. 



Cfte Second Dap of 

A T Home, on the Latin road, the holy martyrs 
^ Jpvinus and Basileus, who suffered under the 
emperors Valerian and Gallienus.&mdash;Also at Rome, 
under the emperor Alexander, and the prefect Ul- 
pian, many holy martyrs, who were a long time 
tortured, and then condemned to capital punishment. 
At Porto, the holy martyrs Paul, Heraclius, Se- 
cundilla, and Januaria.&mdash;At Csesarea, in Cappadocia, 
the holy martyrs Lucius, bishop, Absalon, and Lor- 
gius.&mdash;In Campania, the commemoration of eighty 
holy martyrs, who were barbarously killed by the 
Lombards, because they would not eat meat which 
had been offered to 4:he idols, nor adore a goat's 
head.&mdash;At Rome, St. Simplicius, pope and confes 
sor.&mdash;In England, St. Chad, bishop of Mercia and 
Lindisfarne, whose brilliant virtues are mentioned 
by Bede. 



64 MARCH. 



Cf)e C&irD Dap of 

I T Caesarea, in Palestine, during the persecution 
" of Valerian, the holy martyrs Marinus, soldier, 
and Asterius, senator. The former was examined 
by the judge on the charge laid against him by his 
fellow-soldiers of being a Christian, and as he ad- 
mitted the accusation in no uncertain tone, he was 
beheaded and thus received the crown of martyrdom. 
His mutilated body was taken up by Asterius on his 
shoulders, and wrapped in the garment which he 
himself wore. This service gained for Asterius im- 
mediately the palm of martyrdom as a reward foi* 
the honors which he had given to a matryr.&mdash;In 
Spain, the birthday of the holy martyrs Hermiterius 
and Cheledonius, soldiers in the army at Leon, a city 
of Galicia. On the approach of a persecution they 
went to Calahorra, in order to confess the name of 
Christ, and after enduring many torments there, 
they were crowned with martyrdom. The same day, 
the passion of the Saints Felix, Luciolus, Fortu- 
natus, Marcia, and their companions.&mdash;Also, the holy 
soldiers Cleonicus, Eutropius, and Basiliscus, who 
gloriously triumphed by the death of the cross under 
the governor Asclepiades during the persecution of 
Maximian.&mdash;At Brescia, St. Titian, bishop and con- 
fessor.&mdash;At Bamberg, the empress St. Cunegundes, 
who preserved her virginity with the consent of her 
husband, the emperor Henry I. She terminated a 



MARCH. 



65 



life rich in meritorius good deeds with a holy death 
and worked many miracles afterward. 



Cfte Jfourtfi Dag of Sgarcfi, 

AT Wilna, in Lithuania, blessed Casimir, son of 
" king Casimir, whom the Roman Pontiff, Leo X., 
placed in the number of the Saints.&mdash;At Home, on 
the Appian way, during the persecution of Valerian, 
the birthday of St. Lucius, pope and martyr, who 
was first exiled for the faith of Christ; but being 
permitted by divine Providence to return to his 
church, he suffered martyrdom by decapitation, after 
having combated the Novatians. His praises have 
been published by St. Cyprian.&mdash;Also, at Rome, on 
the Appian road, nine hundred holy martyrs, who 
were buried in the same cemetery as St. Cecilia. 
The same day, St. Caius, a member of the imperial 
household, who was drowned in the sea with twenty- 
seven others.&mdash;At Nicomedia, in the reign of the 
emperor Diocletian, the holy martyr Adrian and 
twenty-three others, who endured martyrdom by 
having their limbs crushed. St. Adrian is especially 
commemorated on the 8th of September, when his 
body was conveyed to Rome.&mdash;Also, the matryrdom 
of the Saints Archelaus, Cyril, and Photius.&mdash;In 
Chersonesus, the passion of the saintly bishops Basil, 
Eugenius, Agathodorus, Elpidius, AEtherius, Capito, 
Ephrem, Nestor, and Arcadius. 



66 MARCH. 



C6e JFiftJ) Dap of 

A T Antioch, the birthday of the martyr St. Phocas, 
^ who triumphed over the old serpent after many 
injuries which he suffered for the name of the Re- 
deemer. That triumph is still manifested to the 
people in our days ; for if any one stung by a serpent, 
touches with faith the door of the martyr's basilica, 
the power of the venom disappears, and he is imme- 
diately cured.&mdash;At Csesarea, in Palestine, in the per- 
secution of Diocletian, St. Adrian, martyr, who, 
being first exposed to a lion for the faith of Christ 
and then killed with the sword by order of the gov- 
ernor Firmilian, received the crown of martyrdom. 
The same day, the passion of the holy martyrs Euse- 
bius, officer of the imperial palace, and nine others. 
At Ca3sarea, in Palestine, in the time of the emperor 
Severus, St. Theophilus, bishop, who was conspicu- 
ous by his wisdom and the purity of his life.&mdash;Also 
in Palestine, on the banks of the Jordan, the an- 
choret St. Gerasimus, who lived in the time of the 
emperor Zeno.&mdash;At Naples, the decease of St. John 
Joseph of the Cross, Promoter and first Provincial 
of the Italian branch of the Order of Discalced 
Minorites of St. Peter of Alcantara, who, by emulat- 
ing the virtues of St. Francis of Assisi and St. Peter 
of Alcantara, became a new ornament of the Sera- 
phic Order. He was canonized by pope Gregory 
XVI. 



MARCH. 67 



Cfte Stetft Dap of 

fTIHE feast of the holy martyrs Perpetua and 
Felicitas, who received the glorious crown of mar- 
tyrdom on the 7th of this month.&mdash;At Nicomedia, 
the birthday of the holy martyrs Victor and Vic- 
torinus, who were, with Claudian and his wife Bassa, 
subjected to many torments during three years and 
were then thrust into prison, where they ended the 
pilgrimage of life.&mdash;At Tortona, St. Marcian, bishop 
and martyr, who received the crown of immortality 
by being killed under Trajan for the glory of Christ. 
At Constantinople, St. Evagrius, who was elected 
bishop by the Catholics in the reign of Valens, and 
being exiled by that emperor, departed for heaven. 
In Cyprus, in the time of the emperor Decius, St. 
Conon, martyr, who, being compelled to run before 
a chariot with his feet pierced with nails, fell on 
his knees, and breathing a prayer expired.&mdash;Also, 
the passion of forty-two holy martyrs, who were 
arrested in Amorium, and taken to Syria, where they 
received the palm of martyrdom after a valiant 
combat.&mdash;At Bologna, St. Basil, bishop, who was 
consecrated by pope St. Sylvester, and by word and 
example governed with great holiness the church 
entrusted to his care.&mdash;At Barcelona, in Spain, 
blessed Ollegarius, who was first a canon, and after- 
wards bishop of Barcelona and archbishop of Tarra- 
gona.&mdash;At Ghent, in Flanders, St. Colette, virgin, 



68 MARCH. 

who at first professed the rule of the Third Order 
of St. Francis, and afterwards, by the inspiration 
of the Holy Spirit, restored the primitive discipline 
in a great number of monasteries of Nuns of the 
Second Order. As she was adorned with heavenly 
virtues, and performed innumerable miracles, she 
was inscribed on the list of the Saints by the Sov- 
ereign Pontiff, Pius VII. 



Cfte Setoenti) Dap of 

TN the monastery of Fossanova, near Terracina, 
* St. Thomas of Aquin, confessor and doctor, of 
the Order of Preachers, illustrious by the nobility 
of his birth, the sanctity of his life, and his knowl- 
edge of theology. Leo XIII. declared him heavenly 
patron of all Catholic schools.&mdash;At Tuburbum, in 
Mauritania (Barbary), in the reign of the emperor 
Severus, the birthday of the Saints Perpetua and 
Felicitas, whose festival is kept on the 6th of this 
month. St. Augustine relates that Felicitas, being 
with child, her execution was deferred, according to 
the laws, until after her delivery, and whilst she was 
in labor she mourned, and when exposed to the 
beasts, she rejoiced. With them suffered Revocatus, 
Saturninus, and Secundulus. This last died in 
prison ; all the others were delivered to the beasts. 
At Caesarea, in Palestine, the passion of St. Eubulus, 



MARCH. 59 

the companion of St. Adrian. Two days after the 
latter, being mangled by the lions, and killed with 
the sword, he was the last of all those who received 
the crown of martyrdom in that city.&mdash;At Nicomedia, 
St. Theophilus, bishop, who was driven into exile 
for the worship of holy images, and there closed his 
life.&mdash;At Pelusium, in Egypt, St. Paul, bishop, who 
for the same cause also died an exile.&mdash;At Brescia, 
St. Gaudiosus, bishop and confessor.&mdash;In Thebais, 
St. Paul, surnamed the Simple. 



Cfte (Eigfttf) Dap of 

A T Granada, in Spain, St. John of God, founder 
^ of the Order of the Brothers Hospitallers, cele- 
brated for his mercy to the poor, and his contempt 
of self. Pope Leo XIII. declared him heavenly 
patron of hospitals and the infirm.&mdash;At Antinous, a 
city of Egypt, the birthday of the holy martyr Phile- 
mon, and the deacon Apollonius. As they firmly 
refused to sacrifice to the idols when they were ap- 
prehended and brought before the judge, they had 
their heels transpierced, were barbarously dragged 
through the city, and finally consummated their 
martyrdom by the edge of the sword.&mdash;Also, in the 
same place, the passion of the Saints Arian, gov- 
ernor, Theoticus and three others, who were sub- 
merged in the sea by order of the judge. Their 



70 MARCH. 

bodies were brought to the short by dolphins.&mdash;At 
Nicomedia, St. Quinctilis, bishop and martyr.&mdash;At 
Carthage, St. Pontius, deacon of bishop St. Cyprian, 
who remained in banishment with him until his 
death, and composed an excellent history of his life 
and martyrdom. By ever glorifying God in his own 
sufferings, he merited the crown of life.&mdash;Also in 
Africa, the Saints Cyril, bishop, Rogatus, Felix, 
another Rogatus, Beata, Herenia, Felicitas, Urbanus, 
Sylvanus, and Mamillus.&mdash;At Toledo, in Spain, the 
demise of blessed Julian, bishop and confessor, most 
celebrated for his sanctity and learning.&mdash;In Eng- 
land, St. Felix, bishop, who converted the East- 
Angles to the faith. 



Cfte Ji3imj) Dap of 

A T Rome, St. Frances, a widow, renowned for her 
" noble extraction, holiness of life, and the gift of 
miracles.&mdash;At Sebaste, in Armenia, under the gov- 
ernor Agricolaus, in the time of the emperor Licin- 
ius, the birthday of forty holy soldiers of Cappa- 
docia. After being loaded with chains and confined 
in foul dungeons, after having their faces bruised 
with stones, and being condemned to spend the night 
naked, during the coldest part of winter, on a frozen 
lake, where their bodies were benumbed and laid 
open by the frost, they ended their martyrdom by 
having their limbs crushed. The noblest of them 



MARCH. 71 

were Cyrion and Candidus. Their glorious triumph 
has been celebrated by St. Basil and other Fathers 
in their writings. Their feast is kept on the tenth 
of this month.&mdash;At Nyssa, the demise of St. Gregory, 
bishop, brother of blessed Basil the Great, whose 
life and erudition have rendered him illustrious. 
He was expelled from his own city for having de- 
fended the Catholic faith during the reign of the 
Arian emperor Valens.&mdash;At Barcelona, in Spain, the 
bishop St. Pacian, distinguished by his life and 
preaching. He ended his career in extreme old age, 
in the time of the emperor Theodosius.&mdash;In Moravia, 
the saintly bishops Cyril and Methodius,who brought 
to the faith of Christ many nations in those regions 
with their kings. Leo XIII. prescribed that their 
feast should be celebrated on the seventh of July. 
At Bologna, St. Catherine, virgin, of the Order of 
St. Clare, illustrious by the holiness of her life. Her 
body is greatly honored in that city. 



Dap of 

A T Sebaste, in Armenia, forty holy martyrs.&mdash;At 
" Apamea, in Phrygia, during the persecution of 
Marcus Antoninus and Lucius Verus, the birthday 
of the holy martyrs Caius and Alexander, who were 
crowned with a glorious martyrdom, as is related 
by Apollinaris, bishop of Hierapolis, in his book 



78 



holy martyrs Codratns, Denis, Cyprian, 
Panl, and Crescens, who were slain with the 

the governor Jason.&mdash;In Africa, the martyr St. Vic- 
tor, on whose festival St Angnstine delivered a dm- 
to his people.&mdash;At Jerusalem, St. 

r, at whose request the holy 



of Bobio, the abbot St.&mdash;Attalaa, 




Cv :: 



A T Carthage, the holy martyrs Hera 
^ mus.&mdash;At Alexandria, the passion of the 
Candidas Piperion. and twenty others&mdash;At Lao- 



the holy martyrs 

tained crowns of glory, after 
onnents.&mdash;At Antioeh, the 
holy martyrs, some of whom by 
MVrimiaii were laid on 

net to be burned to death, but to suffer a 




73 



time; others were subjected to different horrible tor- 
ments, and won the palm of martyrdom.&mdash;Also, the 
Saints Gorgonras and Firmos.&mdash;At Cordova, St. 
Eulogius, a priest, who deserved to be associated 
with the martyrs of that city, far the persecution of 
the Saracens, because in writing of their combats 
for the faith, he had envied their happiness.&mdash;At 
Sardis, the bishop St. Euthjmins, who was banished 
by the Iconoclast emperor Michael for the worship 
of holy images. He consummated his martyrdom 
dnring the reign of Theophilns.&mdash;At Jerusalem, the 
bishop St. Sophronius.&mdash;At Milan, St. Benedict 
bishop.&mdash;In the diocese of Amiens, the abbot St 
Finnin.&mdash;At Carthage, St. Constantine. confessor. 
At Babncnm, in Campania, St. Peter, confessor, re- 
nowned for miracles. 



Cftr Ctoelftfi Dap of 

A T Rome, St Gregory, pope and eminent doctor of 
^ the Chnrch, who on account of his illustrious 
deeds, and the conversion of the English to the faith 
of Christ was snrnamed the Great, and called the 
Apostle of England.&mdash;Also at Borne, St Mamflian. 
martyr.&mdash;At Xicomedia, the passion of the blessed 
martyr Peter, chamberlain of the emperor Diocle- 
tian. For complaining openly of the atrocious tor- 
inflicted on the martyrs, he was, by order of 



74 MARCH. 

the emperor, first suspended and a long time 
scourged, then, salt and vinegar being rubbed into 
his wounds, he was burned on a grate over a slow 
fire. Thus did he become truly the heir of St. 
Peter's name and faith.&mdash;In the same city, St. Eg- 
dunus, priest, and seven others, who were strangled 
one by one, on successive days, to terrify those who 
remained.&mdash;At Constantinople, St. Theophanes, who 
gave up great wealth to embrace poverty in the mo- 
nastic state. By Leo the Armenian he was kept 
in prison two years for the worship of holy images, 
then exiled in Samothracia, where, overwhelmed 
with afflictions, he breathed his last and wrought 
many miracles.&mdash;At Capua, St. Bernard, bishop and 
confessor. 



Cfte Cfnrteentf) Dap of 

A T Nicomedia, the birthday of the holy martyrs 
^ Macedonius, his wife Patritia, and their daughter 
Modest a.&mdash;At Niaea, the holy martyrs Theuseta, 
and Horres, his son, Theodora, Nimphodora, Marcus, 
and Arabia, who were burned to death for Christ. 
At Hermopolis, in Egypt, the martyr St. Sabinus, 
who after many sufferings, terminated his martyr- 
dom by being precipitated into a river.&mdash;In Persia, 
St. Christina, virgin and martyr.&mdash;At Cordova, the 
holy martyrs Rudericus, priest, and Solomon.&mdash;At 



MARCH. 75 

Constantinople, the bishop St. Nicephorus.&mdash;In de- 
fense of the traditions of his forefathers and of the 
worship of sacred images, he opposed firmly the 
Iconoclast emperor Leo the Armenian, by whom he 
was sent into exile, where he underwent a long mar- 
tyrdom of fourteen years, and departed for the king- 
dom of God.&mdash;At Camerino, St. Ansovinus, bishop 
and confessor.&mdash;In Thebais, St. Euphrasia, virgin. 



Cfte Jfoiicteemj) Dap of 

A T Rome, the birthday of forty-seven holy martyrs, 
" who were baptized by the apostle St. Peter, whilst 
he was kept in the Mamertine prison with his fellow- 
apostle St. Paul. After a detention of nine months 
they all fell by the sword of Nero, after most gen- 
erously confessing the faith.&mdash;Also, at Rome, St. 
Leo, bishop and martyr.&mdash;In Africa, the holy mar- 
tyrs Peter and Aphrodisius, who obtained the crown 
of martyrdom in the persecution of the Vandals. 
At Carrha3, in Mesopotamia, the patrician St. Euty- 
chius and his companions, who were killed by Evelid, 
king of Arabia, for the confession of the faith.&mdash;In 
the province of Valeria, two saintly monks, who were 
hanged on a tree by the Lombards, and though dead, 
were heard singing psalms even by their enemies. 
In the same persecution, a deacon of the church of 
Marsico was beheaded for the confession of the faith. 



76 MARCH. 

At Halberstadt, in Germany, the demise of the 
blessed queen Matilda, mother of the emperor Otho 
I., celebrated for her humility and patience. 



Cfie JFifteentf) Dap of 

A T Csesarea, in Cappadocia, the martyrdom of St. 
^ Longinus, the soldier who is said to have pierced 
our Lord's side with a lance. The same day, the 
birthday of St. Aristobulus, a disciple of the Apos- 
tles, who terminated by matryrdom a life spent in 
preaching the Gospel.&mdash;At Thessalonica, St. Ma- 
trona, servant of a Jewess, who, worshipping Christ 
secretly, and stealing away daily to the church to 
pray, was detected by her mistress, and subjected 
to many trials. Being at last beaten to death with 
heavy clubs, she gave up her pure soul to God in 
confessing Christ. The same day, St. Menignus, a 
dyer, who suffered under Decius.&mdash;In Egypt, St. 
Meander, who, seeking diligently for the remains of 
the holy martyrs, merited to be made a martyr him- 
self, under the emperor Diocletian.&mdash;At Cordova, St. 
Leocritia, virgin and martyr.&mdash;At Rome, the birth- 
day of pope St. Zachary, who governed the Church 
of God with great vigilance, and renowned for 
merits, rested in peace.&mdash;At Bieti, the bishop St. 
Probus, at whose death the martyrs Juvenal and 
Eleutherius were present.&mdash;At Borne, St. Speciosus, 



MARCH. 77 

a monk, whose soul his brother saw carried up to 
heaven.&mdash;At Vienna, in Austria, St. Clement Mary 
Hofbauer, a professed priest of the Congregation of 
the Most Holy Redeemer, remarkable for his energy 
in promoting the glory of God and the salvation of 
souls. As he became illustrious by his virtues and 
miracles, the Sovereign Pontiff Pius X. placed him 
in the catalogue of Saints. 



Cfie Steteemfi Dag of 

A T Rome, the martyrdom of the deacon St. Cyria- 
"" cus, who, after a long imprisonment, was covered 
with melted pitch and stretched on the rack, to have 
his limbs distended with ropes, was beaten with 
clubs, and finally beheaded with Largus, Smaragdus, 
and twenty others, by order of Maximian. Their 
feast, however, is kept on the 8th of August, the day 
on which their bodies were taken up by the blessed 
pope Marcellus and reverently entombed.&mdash;At Aqui- 
leia, in the time of the emperor Numerian and the 
governor Beronius, the birthday of the holy bishop 
Hilary, and the deacon Tatian, who terminated their 
martyrdom with Felix, Largus, and Denis, after 
being subjected to the rack and other tortures.&mdash;In 
Lycaonia, the holy martyr Papas, who was scourged 
for the Christian faith, torn with iron hooks, then 
compelled to walk with shoes pierced with nails, 



78 MARCH. 

and finally bound to a barren tree.&mdash;In leaving this 
world to go to God, he rendered the tree fruitful. 
At Anazarbum, in Cilicia, under the governor Mar- 
cian, the martyr St. Julian, who was a long time 
tortured, then put into a sack with serpents, and 
cast into the sea.&mdash;At Ravenna, St. Agapitus, bishop 
and confessor.&mdash;At Cologne, St. Heribert, a bishop, 
celebrated for sanctity.&mdash;At Clermont, in Auvergne, 
the demise of St. Patrick, bishop.&mdash;In Syria, St. 
Abraham, hermit, whose life has been written by the 
blessed deacon Ephrem. 



Cfte Setoenteenti) Dap of 

TN Ireland, the birthday of St. Patrick, bishop and 
* confessor, who was the first to preach Christ in 
that country, and became illustrious by great mir- 
acles and virtues.&mdash;At Jerusalem, St. Joseph of 
Arimathea, noble senator and disciple of our Lord, 
who took his body down from the cross, and buried 
it in his own new sepulchre.&mdash;At Rome, the Saints 
Alexander and Theodore, martyrs.&mdash;At Alexandria, 
the commemoration of many holy martyrs, who being 
seized by the worshippers of Serapis, and refusing 
constantly to adore that idol, were cruelly murdered, 
in the reign of the emperor Theodosius, who after- 
wards issued orders that the temple of Serapis 
should be destroyed.&mdash;At Constantinople, St. Paul, 



MARCH. 79 

martyr, who was burned alive under Constantine 
Copronymus, for defending the worship of holy 
images.&mdash;At Chalons, in France, St. Agricola, bishop. 
At Mvelle, in Brabant, St. Gertrude, a virgin of 
noble birth. Because she despised the world, and 
during her whole life practised all kinds of good 
works, she deserved to have Christ for her spouse in 
heaven. 



Cfte OBigftteentfi Dap of 

A T Jerusalem, St. Cyril, bishop and doctor, who 
^ suffered many injuries from the Arians for the 
faith. Often exiled from his church, he at length 
rested in peace with a great reputation for sanctity. 
A magnificent testimony of the purity of his faith is 
given by a general Council, in a letter to pope Dama- 
sus.&mdash;At Caesarea, in Palestine, the birthday of the 
blessed bishop Alexander, who from his own city, 
in Cappadocia, where he was bishop, coming to Jeru- 
salem to visit the holy places, took upon himself, by 
divine revelation, the government of that Church, in 
the place of the aged Narcissus, its bishop. Some 
time afterwards, when he had become venerable by 
his age and grey hairs, he was led to Csesarea and 
shut up in prison, where he ended his martyrdom 
for the confession of Christ during the persecution 
of Decius.&mdash;At Augsburg, St. Narcissus, bishop, who 



80 MARCH. 

was the first to preach the Gospel in the Tyrol. 
Afterwards, setting out for Spain, he converted many 
to the faith of Christ at Gerona, where, with the 
deacon Felix, he received the palm of martyrdom 
during the persecution of Diocletian.&mdash;At Niome- 
dia, ten thousand holy martyrs, who were put to the 
sword for the confession of Christ.&mdash;Also, the holy 
martyrs Trophimus and Eucarpius.&mdash;In England, 
the holy king Edward, who was assassinated by 
order of his treacherous stepmother, and became 
celebrated for many miracles.&mdash;At Lucca, in Tus- 
cany, the birthday of the holy bishop Frigdian, who 
was illustrious by the power of working miracles. 
His feast is more especially celebrated on the 18th 
of November, when his body was translated.&mdash;At 
Mantua, St. Anselm, bishop and confessor. 



Cfje Ji3ineteentf) Dap of 

TN Judea, the birthday of St. Joseph, spouse of the 
-*- Most Blessed Virgin Mary. Pius IX., yielding 
to the desires and prayers of the whole Catholic 
world, declared him Patron of the Universal Church. 
At Sorrento, the holy martyrs Quinctus, Quinc- 
tilla, Quartilla, and Mark, with nine others.&mdash;At 
Nicomedia, St. Pancharius, a Roman, who was be- 
headed under Diocletian, and thus received the crown 
of martyrdom. The same day, the holy bishops 



MARCH. 81 

Apollouius and Leontius.&mdash;At Ghent the Saints Lan- 
doaldus, a Roman priest, and the deacon Amantius, 
who were sent to preach the Gospel by pope St. 
Martin, and after their death became illustrious by 
many miracles.&mdash;At Civita-di-Penna, the birthday of 
blessed John, a man of great holiness, who came 
from Syria into Italy, where he constructed a mon- 
astery, and, after having been the spiritual guide of 
many servants of God for forty-four years, rested in 
peace, renowned for great virtue. 



Ctoemietf) Dap of 

TN Judea, St. Joachim, father of the Most Blessed 
Virgin Mary, Mother of God, whose festival is 
kept on the 16th of August.&mdash;In Asia, the birthday 
of St. Archippus, fellow-laborer of the blessed apostle 
Paul, who mentions him in his epistles to Philemon, 
and to the Colossians.&mdash;In Syria, the holy martyrs 
Paul, Cyril, Eugenius, and four others. The same 
day, the Saints Photina, a Samaritan, and her sons 
Joseph and Victor; also, Sebastian, military officer, 
Anatolius, and Photius; Photides, Parasceves and 
Cyriaca, sisters, who were all martyred for confessing 
Christ.&mdash;At Amisus, in Paphlagonia, seven holy 
women, Alexandra, Claudia, Euphrasia, Matrona, 
Juliana, Euphemia, and Theodosia, who were put 
to death for the confession of the faith. They were 



82 MARCH. 

followed by Derphuta and her sister.&mdash;At Apollonia, 
the bishop St. Nietas, who breathed his last in exile, 
where he had been sent for upholding the worship 
of holy images.&mdash;In the monastery of Fontanelle, St. 
Wulfran, bishop of Sens, who after having resigned 
his bishopric and performed miracles, departed out 
of this life.&mdash;In England, the demise of St. Cuthbert, 
bishop of Lindisfarne, who from his childhood to his 
death was renowned for good works and miracles. 
At Siena, in Tuscany, blessed Ambrose of the Order 
of Preachers, celebrated for sanctity, eloquence, and 
miracles. 



Dap of 

A"N Mount Cassino, the birthday of the holy abbot 
^ Benedict, who restored and wonderfully extended 
in the West the monastic discipline, which was al- 
most destroyed. His life, brilliant in virtues and 
miracles, was written by pope St. Gregory.&mdash;At 
Alexandria, under the emperor Constantine and the 
governor Philagrius, the commemoration of the holy 
martyrs who were attacked and murdered by the 
Arians and the Gentiles whilst they were in the 
church on Good Friday. The same day, the holy 
martyrs Philemon and Domninus.&mdash;At Catania, St. 
Birillus, who was consecrated bishop by St. Peter. 
After converting many Gentiles to the faith, in ex- 



MARCH. 83 

treme old age he rested in peace.&mdash;At Alexandria, 
blessed Serapion, anchoret and bishop of Thmuis, a 
man of great virtue, who being forced into exile by 
the enraged Arians, went to heaven.&mdash;In the terri- 
tory of Lyons, the abbot St. Lupicinus, whose life 
was resplendent with the lustre of holiness and 
miracles. 



Cfte Ctoentg^econD Dap of 

T Narbonne, in France, the birthday of the bishop 
St. Paul, a disciple of the Apostles. He is said 
to have been the proconsul Sergius Paulus, who was 
baptized by the blessed apostle Paul, and left at 
Narbonne, where he was raised to the episcopal 
dignity when the apostle went to Spain. Having 
zealously discharged the office of preaching and per- 
formed miracles, he departed for heaven.&mdash;At Terra- 
cina, St. Epaphroditus, a disciple of the Apostles, 
who was consecrated bishop of that city by the 
blessed apostle Peter.&mdash;In Africa, the holy martyrs 
Saturninus and nine others. The same day, the 
birthday of the Saints Callinica and Basilissa, mar- 
tyrs. An Ancyra, under Julian the Apostate, St. 
Basil, priest and martyr, who gave up his soul to God 
after having endured grievous torments.&mdash;At Carth- 
age, St. Octavian, archdeacon, and many thousands 
of martyrs, who were slain by the Vandals for the 



84 MARCH. 

Catholic faith.&mdash;In the same place, St. Deogratias, 
bishop of Carthage, who ransomed many captives 
taken from that city by the Vandals, and performed 
other good works, after which he went to rest in the 
Lord.&mdash;At Osimo, in the March of Ancona, St. Ben- 
venutus, bishop.&mdash;In Sweden, St. Catharine, virgin, 
daughter of St. Bridget.&mdash;At Rome, St. Lea, a 
widow, whose virtues and happy death are related 
by St. Jerome.&mdash;At Genoa, St. Catharine, a widow, 
celebrated for her contempt of the world and her 
love of God. 



Cfie Ctoentp*tftirD Dap of 

TN Africa, the holy martyrs Victorian, proconsul 
* of Carthage, and two brothers, of Aquaregia. 
Also two merchants, named Frementius, who, bishop 
Victor Africanus tells us, were subjected to most 
atrocious torments for their coureageous confession 
of the Catholic faith, and gloriously crowned under 
the Arian king Hunneric, during the persecution of 
the Vandals.&mdash;Also in Africa, St. Fidelis, martyr. 
In the same country, St. Felix, and twenty others. 
At Csesarea, in Palestine, the holy martyrs Nicon, 
and twenty-nine others.&mdash;Also, the crowning of the 
holy martyrs Domitius, Pelagia, Aquila, Eparchius, 
and Theodosia.&mdash;At Lima, in Peru, the archbishop 
St. Turibius, through whose labors faith and ecclesi- 



MARCH. 85 

astical discipline were diffused through America. 
At Antioch, St. Theodulus, priest.&mdash;At Csesarea, St. 
Julian, confessor.&mdash;In Campania, St. Benedict, a 
monk, who was shut up by the Goths in a burning 
furnace, but was the next day found uninjured. 
At Barcelona, in Spain, St. Joseph Oriol, priest and 
beneficiary of the church of St. Mary of the Kings. 
He was remarkable for his love of poverty and his 
charity towards the needy and the infirm. Distin- 
guished both in life and after death by the working 
of miracles, he was placed in the number of the 
Saints by Pius X. 



Cfte CtoentHourti) Dap of 

A T Rome, the holy martyrs Mark and Timothy, who 
" were crowned with martyrdom under the empe- 
ror Antoninus.&mdash;In the same city, St. Epigmenius, 
priest, who consummated his martyrdom by the 
sword, in the persecution of Diocletian, under the 
judge Turpius.&mdash;Also, at Eome, in the time of Julian 
the Apostate, the passion of blessed Pigmenius, a 
priest, who was killed for the faith of Christ, by 
being precipitated into the Tiber.&mdash;At Csesarea, in 
Palestine, the birthday of the holy martyrs Timo- 
laus, Denis, Pausides, Romulus, Alexander, another 
Alexander, Agapius, and another Denis, who mer- 
ited the crown of life by being beheaded in the per- 



86 MARCH. 

secution of Diocletian, under the governor Urban. 
In Mauritania (Barbary), the birthday of the saintly 
brothers Romulus and Secundus, who suffered for 
the faith of Christ.&mdash;At Trent, the martyrdom of 
the holy child Simeon, who was barbarously mur- 
dered by the Jews. He became celebrated for many 
miracles.&mdash;At Synnadas, in Phrygia, St. Agapitus, 
bishop.&mdash;At Brescia, St. Latinus, bishop.&mdash;In Syria, 
St. Seleucus, confessor. 



Cfie Ctoemgsfift!) Dap of 

fTlHE Annunciation of the most Blessed Virgin 
* Mary, Mother of God.&mdash;At Rome, St. Quirinus, 
martyr, who after losing his goods, suffering impris- 
onment in a dark dungeon, and being severely 
scourged, was put to death with the sword, and 
thrown into the Tiber. The Christians found his 
body in the island of St. Bartholomew and buried 
it in the Pontian cemetery.&mdash;In the same city, two 
hundred and sixty-two holy martyrs.&mdash;At Sirmium, 
the martyrdom of St. Irenaeus, bishop.&mdash;In the time 
of the emperor Maximian, under the governor Pro- 
bus, after undergoing bitter torments, and a painful 
imprisonment for many days, he was beheaded.&mdash;At 
Nicomedia, St. Dula, the servant of a soldier, who 
was killed for the preservation of her chastity, and 
deserved the crown of martyrdom.&mdash;At Jerusalem, 



MARCH. 87 

the commemoration of the good Thief, who confessed 
Christ on the cross, and deserved to hear from Him 
these words: "This day thou shalt be with Me in 
paradise."&mdash;At Laodicea, St. Pelagius, bishop, who 
having endured exile and other afflictions for the 
Catholic faith under Valens, rested in the Lord.&mdash;At 
Pistoja, the* holy confessors Barontius and Desid- 
erius.&mdash;In&mdash;Indre, an island of the Loire, the abbot 
St. Hermelandus, whose glorious life is attested by 
signal miracles. 



Cfte Ctoentp^fctJ) Dag of 



A T Eome, on the Lavican road, St. Castulus, mar- 
" tyr, chamberlain in the palace of the emperor. 
For harboring the Christians, he was three times 
suspended by the hands, three times cited before the 
tribunals, and as he persevered in the confession of 
the Lord, he was thrown into a pit, overwhelmed 
with a mass of sand, and thus obtained the crown of 
martyrdom.&mdash;In the same city, the crowning of the 
holy martyrs Peter, Marcian, Jovinus, Thee! a, Cas- 
sian, and others.&mdash;At Pentapolis, in Lybia, the birth- 
day of the holy martyrs Theodore, bishop, Irenaeus, 
deacon, Serapion and Ammonius, lectors.&mdash;At Sir- 
mium, the holy martyrs Montanus, priest, and Max- 
ima, who were cast into a river for the faith of 
Christ.&mdash;Also, the holy martyrs Quadratus, Theodo- 



88 MARCH. 

sius, Emmanuel, and forty others.&mdash;At Alexandria, 
the holy martyrs Eutychius and others, who died 
by the sword for the Catholic faith, in the time of 
Constantine, under the Arian bishop George. The 
same day, St. Ludger, bishop of Munster, who 
preached the Gospel to the Saxons.&mdash;At Saragossa, 
in Spain, St. Braulio, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At 
Treves, St. Felix, bishop. 



Cfte Ctoemp*0etoentf) Dap of 

rilHE festival of St. John Damascene, confessor and 
-^ doctor of the Church. He is mentioned on the 
6th of May.&mdash;At Drizipara, in Pannonia, St. Alex- 
ander, a soldier, in the time of emperor Maximian. 
Having overcome many tribulations for Christ, and 
wrought many miracles, he completed his martyr- 
dom by decapitation. The same day, the Saints 
Philetus, senator, his wife Lydia, and their sons 
Macedon and Theoprepides ; also Amphilochius, an 
officer in the army, and Chronidas, a notary, who 
were put to death for the confession of Christ.&mdash;In 
Persia, in the reign of King Sapor, the holy martyrs 
Zanitas, Lazarus, Marotas, Narses, and five others, 
who merited the palm of martyrdom by being bar- 
barously murdered.&mdash;At Salzburg, St. Rupert, bishop 
and confessor, who spread the Gospel extensively in 
Bavaria and Austria.&mdash;In Egypt, the hermit St. 



MARCH. 89 

John, a man of great holiness, who among other 
virtues, was replenished with the spirit of prophecy, 
and predicted to the emperor Theodosius that he 
would gain the victory over the tyrants Maximus 
and Eugenius. 

T. JOHN of Capistran, confessor, who is men- 
tioned on the 23d of October.&mdash;At Caesarea, in 
Palestine, the birthday of the holy martyrs Priscus, 
Malchus, and Alexander.&mdash;In the persecution of 
Valerian, they were dwelling in the suburbs of Caes- 
area, but knowing that in the city the heavenly 
crown of martyrdom was to be gained, and burning 
with the divine ardor of faith, they go to the judge 
of their own accord, rebuke him for shedding the 
blood of the faithful in torrents, and are forthwith 
condemned to be devoured by beasts for the name 
of Christ.&mdash;At Tarsus, in Cilicia, the holy martyrs 
Castor and Dorotheus.&mdash;In Africa, the holy martyrs 
Rogatus, Successus, and sixteen others.&mdash;At Rome, 
St. Xystus III., pope and confessor.&mdash;At Norcia, the 
abbot St. Speus, a man of extraordinary patience, 
whose soul at its departure from this life was seen 
by all his brethren to ascend to heaven in the shape 
of a dove.&mdash;At Chalons, in France, the demise of St. 
Gontram, king, who devoted himself to exercises of 
piety, renounced the pomps of the world, and be- 
stowed his treasures on churches and the poor. 



90 MARCH. 

Cfte Ctoemg*nmti) Dag of Qparcft, 

TN Persia, the holy martyrs Jonas and Barachisius, 
* under Sapor, king of Persia. Jonas, being pressed 
in a vice till his bones were broken, was cut in twain ; 
Barachisius was suffocated by burning pitch poured 
into his throat.&mdash;At Heliopolis, near Mount Leba- 
non, under Julian the Apostate, St. Cyril, deacon 
and martyr, whose body was opened and his liver 
plucked out by the Gentiles, who devoured it like 
wild beasts.&mdash;At Nicomedia, the martyrdom of the 
holy martyrs Pastor, Victorinus and their compan- 
ions.&mdash;In Africa, under the Arian king Genseric, 
during the persecution of the Vandals, the holy con- 
fessors Armogastes, count, Mascula, Archimimus, 
and Saturus, master of the king's household. Hav- 
ing endured many severe torments, as well as re- 
proaches, for the confession of the truth, they 
reached the end of their glorious combats.&mdash;At Asti, 
St. Secundus, martyr.&mdash;In the monastery of Luxeuil, 
the decease of the abbot St. Eustasius, a disciple of 
St. Columbau, who had under his guidance nearly 
six hundred monks. Eminent in sanctity, he was 
also renowned for miracles. 



C&e Cfiittietfi Dag of 

AT Rome, on the Appian way, the martyrdom of 
^ blessed Quirinus, tribune, baptized with all his 
household, by pope St. Alexander, who was impris- 



MARCH. 91 

oned in his house. Under the emperor Adrian, he 
was delivered to the judge Aurelian, and, as he per- 
severed in the confession of the faith, his tongue 
was plucked out, he was stretched on the rack, his 
hands and feet were cut off, and the sword termi- 
nated the course of his martyrdom.&mdash;At Thessa- 
lonica, the birthday of the holy martyrs Domninus, 
Victor, and their companions.&mdash;At Constantinople, 
the commemoration of many holy martyrs of the 
Catholic communion, whom the heresiarch Mace- 
donius, in the time of Constantius, put to death by 
unheard-of kinds of torments. For among other 
tortures, he cut off the breasts of Christian women 
by pressing them between the lids of chests, and 
seared the wounds with hot iron.&mdash;At Senlis, the 
demise of St. Regulus, bishop of Aries.&mdash;At Orleans, 
in France, St. Pastor, bishop.&mdash;At Syracuse, St. 
Zosimus, bishop and confessor. On Mount Sinai, 
St. John Climacus, abbot.&mdash;At Aquino, St. Clinius, 
confessor. 



Cfte CJnrtg*8m Dap of 

A T Thecua, in Palestine, the holy prophet Amos, 
** whom the priest Amasias frequently scourged, 
and whose temples Ozias, that priest's son, pierced 
with an iron spike. Being carried half dead to his 
native place, he expired there and was buried with 



92 MARCH. 

his forefathers.&mdash;In Africa, the holy martyrs Theo- 
dulus, Anesius, Felix, Cornelia, and their compan- 
ions.&mdash;In Persia, during the reign of king Isdegerdes, 
St. Benjamin, deacon. Because he would not cease 
to preach the word of God, sharp-pointed reeds were 
forced under his nails, a thorny stake driven through 
his entrails ; and thus he consummated his martyr- 
dom.&mdash;At Rome, the holy virgin Balbina, daughter 
of the blessed martyr Quirinus, who was baptized 
by pope St. Alexander, and after overcoming the 
world, was buried on the Appian road at her father's 
side. 



APRIL. 



Cfte JFirst Dap of 




T Rome, the passion of St. Theodora, sister 
of the illustrious martyr Hermes, who un- 
derwent martyrdom in the time of the 
emperor Adrian, under the judge Aurelian, 
and was buried by the side of her brother, on the 
Salarian road, a short distance from the city. The 
same day, St. Venantius, bishop and martyr.&mdash;In 
Egypt, the holy martyrs Victor and Stephen.&mdash;In 
Armenia, the holy martyrs Quinctian and Irenaeus. 
At Constantinople, under the emperor Leo, St. Ma- 
carius, confessor, who ended his life in exile for the 
defence of the honor paid to sacred images.&mdash;At 
Grenoble, the bishop St. Hugh, who spent many 
years of his life in solitude, and departed for heaven, 
with a reputation for miracles.&mdash;At Amiens, the 
abbot St. Valery, whose tomb is made illustrious by 
frequent miracles. 



94 APRIL. 



Cfie SeconD Dap of 

T. FRANCIS of Paula, founder of the Order of 
Minims. As he was renowned for virtues and 
miracles, he was inscribed among the Saints by 
Leo X.&mdash;At Caesarea, in Palestine, during the per- 
secution of Galerius Maximian, the birthday of the 
martyr St. Amphian, who, because he reproved the 
governor Urban for sacrificing to idols, was cruelly 
lacerated and, with his feet wrapped in a cloth sat- 
urated with oil, was set on fire. After these painful 
tortures, he was plunged into the sea. Thus 
through fire and water, he reached everlasting re- 
pose.&mdash;In the same city, the passion of St. Theodo- 
sia, a virgin of Tyre, who, in the same persecution, 
for having publicly saluted the holy confessors as 
they stood before the tribunal, and begged of them 
to remember her when they should be with God, was 
arrested and led to the governor Urban. By his 
order, her sides and breasts were lacerated to the 
very vitals, and she was thrown into the sea.&mdash;At 
Lyons, St. Nizier, bishop of that city, renowned for 
his saintly life and miracles.&mdash;At Como, St. Abun- 
dius, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Langres, St. Urban, 
bishop.&mdash;In Palestine, the decease of St. Mary of 
Egypt, surnamed the Sinner. 



APRIL. 95 



Cfte CftirD Dap of 

A T Taormina, in Sicily, the bishop St. Pancratius, 
" who sealed, with a martyr's blood, the gospel of 
Christ which the apostle St. Peter had sent him 
thither to preach.&mdash;At Tomis, in Scythia, the birth- 
day of the holy martyrs Evagrius and Benignus. 
At Thessalonica, the martyrdom of the holy virgins 
Agape and Chionia, under the emperor Diocletian. 
As they would not deny Christ, they were first de- 
tained in prison, then cast into the fire, but being 
untouched by the flames, they gave up their souls to 
their Creator whilst praying to Him.&mdash;At Tyre, the 
martyr St. Vulpian, who was sewed up in a sack 
with a serpent and a dog, and drowned in the sea, 
during the persecution of Maximian Galerius.&mdash;In 
the monastery of Medicion, in the East, the abbot 
St. Nicetas, who suffered much for the worship of 
holy images, in the time of Leo the Armenian.&mdash;In 
England, St. Richard, bishop of Chichester, cele- 
brated for holiness and glorious miracles.&mdash;In the 
same country, St. Burgundofora, abbess and vir- 
gin.&mdash;At Palermo, St. Benedict, of St. Philadelphus, 
confessor, surnamed the Black, on account of his 
color. He was of the Order of Minorites, and rested 
in the Lord on the third of April, with a reputation 
for miracles. The Sovereign Pontiff, Pius VII., 
placed him in the number of the Saints. 



96 APRIL. 



Cfie Jfotmf) Dap of 

A T Seville, in Spain, St. Isidore, a bishop eminent 
** for sanctity and learning, who shed lustre on his 
country by his zeal for the Catholic faith, and the 
observance .of ecclesiastical discipline.&mdash;At Thessa- 
lonica, in the time of the emperor Maximian and the 
governor Faustinus, the holy martyrs Agathopodes, 
a deacon, and Theodulus, a lector, who, for the con- 
fession of the Christian faith, were thrown into the 
sea with stones tied to their necks.&mdash;At Milan, the 
demise of St. Ambrose, bishop and confessor, through 
whose labors, learning and miracles, almost all Italy 
returned to the Catholic faith, at the time when the 
perfidious Arian heresy was widely diffused.&mdash;At 
Constantinople, St. Plato, a monk, who for many 
years combated with invincible courage the heretics 
that were breaking sacred images.&mdash;In Palestine, the 
anchoret St. Zozimus, who buried the remains of St. 
Mary of Egypt. 



Cfte JFift!) Dap of 

A T Vannes, in Brittany, St. Vincent Ferrer, con- 

fessor, of the Order of Preachers, who was mighty 

in word and deed, and converted many thousands 

of infidels to Christ.&mdash;At Thessalonica, St. Irene, 



APRIL. 97 

virgin, who was imprisoned for having concealed 
the sacred books, contrary to the edict of Diocletian, 
was pierced with an arrow, and consumed by fire, 
by order of the governor Dulcetius, under whom her 
sisters Agape and Chionia had previously suffered. 
In the island of Lesbos, the sufferings of five holy 
martyrs. The same day, St. Zeno, martyr, who was 
flayed alive, besmeared with pitch, and then cast 
into the fire.&mdash;In Africa, the holy martyrs, who, in 
the persecution of the Arian king Genseric, were 
murdered in the church on Easter day. The lector, 
whilst singing Alleluia at the stand, was pierced 
through the throat with an arrow. 



Cfte Stafc Dap of 3pril, 

A T Rome, the birthday of blessed Sixtus, pope and 
^ martyr, who governed the Church in the time of 
the emperor Adrian. Under Antoninus Pius, he 
joyfully endured a corporal death in order to gain 
Christ.&mdash;In Macedonia, the holy martyrs Timothy 
and Diogenes.&mdash;In Persia, one hundred and twenty 
holy martyrs.&mdash;At Ascalon, the holy martyrs Plato- 
nides and two others.&mdash;At Carthage, St. Marcellin, 
who was slain by the heretics for defending the 
Catholic faith.&mdash;At Rome, pope St. Celestin, who 
condemned Nestorius, bishop of Constantinople, and 
put Pelagius to flight. It was also by his authority, 



98 APRIL. 

that the holy ecumenical Synod of Ephesus was con- 
voked against Nestorius.&mdash;In Ireland, the holy 
bishop Celsus, who preceded blessed Malachy in the 
episcopate.&mdash;In Denmark, St. William, an abbot re- 
nowned for his saintly life and miracles. 



Cfie Setoemj) Dap of 

TN Africa, the birthday of the holy martyrs Epiph- 
anius, bishop, Donatus, Rufinus, and thirteen 
others.&mdash;At Sinope, in Pontus, two hundred holy 
martyrs.&mdash;In Cilicia, under the prefect Maximian, 
St. Calliopius, martyr. After undergoing other tor- 
ments, he was fastened to a cross with his head 
downward, and gained the noble crown of martyr- 
dom.&mdash;At Nicomedia, St. Cyriacus and ten other 
martyrs.&mdash;At Alexandria, St. Peleusius, priest and 
martyr.&mdash;At Eome, St. Hegesippus, who lived near 
the time of the Apostles. He came to Home whilst 
Anicetus was Sovereign Pontiff, and remained till 
the accession of Eleutherius. He wrote the history 
of the Church in a simple style, from the Passion of 
our Lord to his own time, and delineated in his nar- 
rative the character of those whose lives he imitated. 
At Verona, St. Saturninus, bishop and confes- 
sor.&mdash;In Syria, in the time of Yalens, St. Aphraates, 
an anchoret, who defended the Catholic faith against 
the Arians by the power of miracles. 



APRIL. 



C6e (JBfgfttf) Dap of 

A T Alexandria, in the time of the emperor Max- 
" imian Galerius, the martyr St. .ZEdesius, brother 
of the blessed Apphian. Because he reproved the 
wicked judge publicly for delivering to corruptors 
virgins consecrated to God, he was arrested by the 
soldiers, exposed to the most severe torments, and 
thrown into the sea for Christ our Lord.&mdash;In Africa, 
the holy martyrs Januarius, Maxima, and Macaria. 
At Carthage, St. Concessa, martyr. The same day, 
the commemoration of the Saints Herodion, Asyn- 
critus and Phlegon, who are mentioned by the blessed 
apostle Paul in his epistle to the Romans.&mdash;At Cor- 
inth, the bishop St. Denis, who instructed not only 
the people of his own city and province by the learn- 
ing and unction with which he preached the word of 
God, but also the bishops of other cities and prov- 
inces by the letters which he wrote to them. His 
veneration for the Roman Pontiffs was such that he 
used to read their epistles publicly in the church on 
Sundays. He lived in the time of Marcus Antoninus 
Verus and Lucius Aurelius Commodus.&mdash;At Tours, 
the holy bishop Perpetuus, a man of wonderful sanc- 
tity.&mdash;At Ferentino, in Campania, St. Redemptus, 
bishop, mentioned by pope St. Gregory.&mdash;At Como, 
St. Amantius, bishop and confessor. 



100 APRIL. 



Cfie jQtnti) Dap of 

A T Antioch, St. Prochorus, who was one of the first 
seven deacons. Renowned for faith and miracles, 
he was crowned with martyrdom.&mdash;At Rome the 
birthday of the holy martyrs Demetrius, Concessus, 
Hilary and their companions.&mdash;At Sirmium, seven 
holy virgins and martyrs, who purchased eternal life 
together, at the price of their own blood.&mdash;At Caes- 
area, in Cappadocia, St. Eupsychius, martyr, who 
suffered martyrdom under Julian the Apostate, for 
having overthrown the temple of Fortune.&mdash;In Af- 
rica, the holy Massy litan martyrs, on whose birthday 
St. Augustine delivered a discourse.&mdash;At Amida, in 
Mesopotamia, St. Acatius, bishop, who melted and 
sold even the sacred vessels in order to ransom cap- 
tives.&mdash;At Rouen, St. Hugh, bishop and confessor. 
At Die, St. Marcellus, bishop, celebrated for mir- 
acles.&mdash;In Judea, St. Mary Cleophas, sister of the 
most Blessed Mary, Mother of God.&mdash;At Rome, the 
translation of the body of St. Monica, mother of the 
blessed bishop Augustine, which was brought from 
Ostia to Rome, under the Sovereign Pontiff, Martin 
V., and with due honors buried in the Church of St. 
Augustine.&mdash;At Mons, in Hainaut, blessed Waltrude, 
renowned for holiness of life and miracles. 



/ 8T. MICHAEL'S \ -* A 
V Cm i Pracr / C* I 



APRIL. 101 



Cent!) Dap of 

HPHE prophet Ezechiel, who was put to death in 
Babylon by the Judge of the people of Israel, 
because he reproved him for worshipping idols. He 
was buried in the sepulchre of Sem and Arphaxad, 
Abraham's ancestors. To his tomb many were wont 
to resort for the purpose of prayer.&mdash;At Rome, the 
birthday of many holy martyrs, whom pope St. Alex- 
ander baptized whilst he was detained in prison. 
The prefect Aurelian had them all put in an old ship, 
taken to the deep sea, and plunged into it with 
stones tied to their necks.&mdash;At Alexandria, the holy 
martyrs Apollonius, priest, and five others, who, in 
the persecution of Maximian, were drowned in the 
sea.&mdash;In Africa, under the emperor Decius and the 
prefect Fortunian, the holy martyrs Terentius, Afri- 
can, Pompey, and their companions, who were 
scourged, racked, and subjected to other torments. 
Their martyrdom ended by decapitation. The same 
day, St. Macarius, bishop of Antioch, celebrated for 
virtues and miracles.&mdash;At Valladolid, in Spain, St. 
Michael of the Saints, confessor, of the Order of 
Discalced Trinitarians for the Redemption of Cap- 
tives, a man remarkable for integrity of life, for the 
penitential spirit, and for great love of God. Pius 
IX. solemnly canonized him on Whitsunday, 1862, 
and ordered his festival to be kept on the 5th of 
July. 



102 APRIL. 



Cfie OElefcenti) Dap of 

A T Rome, St. Leo, pope and confessor, who was sur- 
** named the Great on account of his extraordinary 
merits. He gave the seal of his authority to the 
holy council of Chalcedon, which was held in his 
time and which condemned Eutyches through his 
legates. After having merited the gratitude of the 
Church of God and the whole flock of Christ by the 
many decrees which he issued and the many excel- 
lent treatises which he wrote, this good and zealous 
shepherd rested in peace.&mdash;At Pergamus, in Asia, 
St. Antipas, a faithful witness, of whom St. John 
speaks in the Apocalypse. Under the emperor Do- 
mitian, he was shut up in a red-hot brazen ox, and 
thus consummated his martyrdom.&mdash;At Salona, in 
Dalmatia, the holy martyrs Ddmnion, a bishop, and 
eight soldiers.&mdash;At Gortina, in Crete, in the time of 
Marcus Antoninus Yerus and Lucius Aurelius Corn- 
modus, St. Philip, a bishop most renowned for merit 
and doctrine, who defended the church entrusted to 
his care against the fury of the Gentiles, and the 
wiles of the heretics.--At Nicomedia, St. Eustorgius, 
a priest.&mdash;At Spoleto, St. Isaac, monk and confessor, 
whose virtues are recorded by pope St. Gregory.&mdash;At 
Gaza, in Paletsine, St. Barsanuphius, an anchoret, 
in the time of the emperor Justinian. 



APRIL. 103 



Cfte Ctoelftft Dap of 

. . , ' . . < 

AT Verona, the matryrdom of the bishop St. Zeno, 
"" who governed that Church with great fortitude 
amidst the storms of persecution, and was crowned 
with martyrdom in the days of Gallienus.&mdash;In Cap- 
padocia, in the reign of the emperor Valens, in the 
persecution raised against Christians by&mdash;Athanaric ? 
king of the Goths, St. Sabas, a Goth, who was cast 
into a river after undergoing cruel torments. Ac- 
cording to St. Augustine, many other Christian 
Goths were at that time adorned with the crown of 
martyrdom.&mdash;At Braga, in Portugal, St. Victor, mar- 
tyr, who although only a catechumen, refused to 
adore an idol, and confessed Jesus Christ with great 
constancy. After suffering many tortures, he was 
beheaded, and thus merited to be baptized in his 
own blood.&mdash;At Fermo, in the Marches, St. Vissia, 
virgin and martyr.&mdash;At Rome, on the Aurelian road, 
the birthday of pope St. Julius, who combated vig- 
orously for the Catholic faith against the Arians. 
After a life of brilliant deeds and great sanctity, he 
rested in peace.&mdash;At Gap, St. Constantine, bishop 
and confessor.&mdash;At Pavia, St. Damian, bishop. 



104 APRIL. 



C&e Cintteentft Dap of 



I T Seville, in Spain, St. Hermenegild, son of Leovi- 
"" gild, Arian king of the Visigoths, who was in- 
carcerated for the confession of the Catholic faith. 
By order of his wicked father he was beheaded be- 
cause he had refused to receive communion from an 
Arian bishop, on the Paschal solemnity, and thus 
exchanging an earthly for a heavenly kingdom, he 
entered the abode of the blessed, both as a king and 
as a martyr.&mdash;At Pergamus, in Asia, the birthday 
of the holy martyrs Carpus, bishop of Thyatira, 
Papylus, deacon, and his sister Agathonica, an excel- 
lent woman, Agathadorus, their servant, and many 
others, who after various torments, were, for their 
blessed confession, crowned with martyrdom in the 
persecution of Marcus Antoninus Verus and Lucius 
Aurelius Commodus.&mdash;In this same persecution, 
there suffered at Rome that remarkable man, Justin 
the Philosopher, who had addressed to the emperors 
his second Apology in defence of our religion, and 
upheld it by strong arguments. Being accused of 
professing Chirstianity by the intrigues of the Cynic 
Crescens, whose conduct and immorality he had re- 
proved, he obtained the reward of a martyr, as a 
remuneration for his faithful confession. The same 
day, the martyrdom of the Saints Maximus, Quinc- 
tillian, and Dadas, during the persecution of Dio- 



APRIL. 105 

cletian.&mdash;At Ravenna, St. Ursus, bishop and con- 
fessor. 



Cfie Jfourteentft Dap of 3priL 

feast of St. Justin, martyr, who is mentioned 
on the 13th of this month.&mdash;At Rome, on the 
Appian way, the birthday of the holy martyrs Tibur- 
tius, Valerian, and Maximus, who suffered in the 
time of the emperor Alexander and the prefect Al- 
machius. The first two being converted to Christ 
by the exhortations of blessed Cecilia, and baptized 
by pope St. Urban, were beaten with rods, and de- 
capitated for the true faith. But Maximus, cham- 
berlain of the prefect, moved by their constancy, and 
encouraged by the vision of an angel, believed in 
Christ, and was scourged with leaded whips until he 
expired.&mdash;At Teramo, St. Proculus, bishop and mar- 
tyr.&mdash;Also, St. Domnina, virgin and martyr, crowned 
with other virgins, her companions.&mdash;At Alexandria, 
St. Thomaides, martyr. The same day, St. Ardalion, 
an actor. One day, in the theatre, while mocking 
the holy rites of the Christian religion, he was sud- 
denly converted, and bore testimony to it, not only 
by his words, but also with his blood.&mdash;At Lyons, 
St. Lambert, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Alexandria, 
St. Fronto, an abbot, whose life was adorned with 
sanctity and miracles.&mdash;At Rome, St. Abundius, resi- 
dent sacristan of the church of St. Peter. 



106 APRIL. 

Cfie jftfteewft Dap of 

A T Rome, the Saints Basilissa and Anastasia. Of 
^ noble family, they were disciples of the Apostles, 
and as they persevered courageously in the profes- 
sion of their faith in the time of the emperor Nero, 
they had their tongues and feet cut off, were put to 
the sword, and thus obtained the crown of martyr- 
dom. The same day, the holy martyrs Maro, Euty- 
ches, and Victorinus, who, with blessed Flavia Domi- 
tilla, were banished to the island of Pontia for the 
confession of Christ. Being recalled in the reign 
of Nerva, and having converted many to the faith, 
they were put to death in different manners by the 
judge Valerian during the persecution of Trajan. 
In Persia, in the reign of the emperor Decius, the 
holy martyrs Maxinius and OJympiades, who were 
beaten with rods and whips, and struck on their 
heads with clubs until they breathed their last.&mdash;At 
Perentino, in Campania, St. Eutychius, martyr. 
At Myra, in Lycia, St. Crescens, who consummated 
his martyrdom by fire.&mdash;Also the holy martyrs Theo- 
dorus and Pausilippus, who suffered under the em- 
peror Adrian. 



Ci)e @>i*teemi) Dap of 

I T Corinth, the birthday of the holy martyrs Callis- 
" tus and Charisius, with seven others, who were 
cast into the sea.&mdash;At Saragossa, in Spain, the birth- 



APRIL. 107 

day of eighteen holy martyrs, Optatus, Lupercus, 
Successus, Martial, Urbanus, Julia, Quinctilian, Pub- 
ilus, Fronto, Felix, Caecilian, Eventius, Primitivus, 
Apodemius, and four others, who, it is said, bore the 
name of Saturninus. Under Dacian, governor of 
Spain, they were all together subjected to torments 
and slain. The glory of their martyrdom has been 
celebrated in verse by Prudentius.&mdash;In the same 
place, St. Encratis, a virgin and martyr who had 
her body lacerated, her breasts cut off, and her liver 
plucked out. As she survived these torments, she 
was confined in a prison until her ulcerated flesh 
putrefied.&mdash;In the same city, the Saints Caius and 
Crementius, who twice confessed the faith of Christ, 
and persevering in it, drank of the chalice of mar- 
tyrdom. Again in the same place, the martyr St. 
Lambert.&mdash;At Palencia, St. Turibius, bishop of As- 
torga, who with the aid of pope St. Leo, drove the 
heresy of Priscillian entirely out of Spain, and went 
to rest in the Lord with a great renown for miracles. 
At Braga, in Portugal, the bishop St. Fructuo- 
sus. The same day, St. Paternus, bishop of Av- 
rauches.&mdash;In Belgium, near Valenciennes, St. Drogo, 
confessor.&mdash;At Siena, in Tuscany, blessed Joachim, 
of the Order of the Servites of the Blessed Virgin 
Mary.&mdash;At Rome, the birthday of St. Benedict Jo- 
seph Labre, confessor, who was renowned for his 
contempt of self and his great voluntary poverty. 



108 APEIL. 



Cfie Setoemeemj) Dap of 

IT Rome, St. Anicetus, pope and martyr, who ob- 
tained the palm of martyrdom in the persecution 
of Marcus Aurelius Antoninus.&mdash;In Africa, the birth- 
day of blessed Mappalicus, and many others who 
were crowned with martyrdom, as is related by St. 
Cyprian in his epistle to the Martyrs and Confessors. 
In the same country, the holy martyrs Fortunatus 
and Marcian.&mdash;At Antioch, the holy martyrs Peter, 
a deacon, and Hermogenes, his servant.&mdash;At Cordova, 
the holy martyrs Elias, a priest, Paul and Isidore, 
monks.&mdash;At Vienne, St. Pantagathus, bishop.&mdash;At 
Tortona, St.&mdash;Innocent, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At 
Citeaux, in France, the abbot St. Stephen, who was 
the first to live in the desert of Citeaux, and who 
joyfully welcomed St. Bernard and his com- 
panions when they came thither.&mdash;In the monastery 
of Chaise-Dieu, in the diocese of Clermont, St. Rob- 
ert, confessor, founder and first abbot of that mon- 
astery. 



Cfie OEig&teentf) Dap of 

A T Rome, St. Apollonius, a senator under the empe 

ror Commodus and the prefect Perennius. Hav- 

ing been denounced as a Christian by one of his 

slaves, and being commanded to give an account of 



APRIL. 109 

his faith, he composed an able work which he read 
in the Senate. He was nevertheless decapitated for 
Christ by the sentence of that body.&mdash;At Messina, 
the birthday of the holy martyrs, Eleutherius, 
bishop of Illyricum, and Anthia, his mother. Illus- 
trious by his holiness of life and his power of 
working miracles, he was, in the reign of Adrian, 
laid on a bed of red-hot iron, on a gridiron, in a pan 
filled with boiling oil, pitch and rosin; he was cast 
to the lions, but, remaining unhurt, he finally had 
his throat pierced with a sword. His mother suf- 
fered a similar punishment.&mdash;In the same place, St. 
Corebus, prefect, who was converted to the faith by 
St. Eleutherius, and died by the sword.&mdash;At Brescia, 
St. Calocerus, a martyr, who was converted to Christ 
by Saints Faustinus and Jovita, and under the same 
Adrian terminated his glorious combat for the con- 
fession of the faith.&mdash;At Cordova, St. Perfect, priest 
and martyr, killed by the Moors for inveighing 
against the followers of Mahomet.&mdash;At Milan, St. 
Galdini, cardinal and bishop of that city, who, at 
the conclusion of a discourse against heretics, gave 
up his soul to God.&mdash;In Tuscany, on Mount Senario, 
blessed Amideus, one of the seven Founders of the 
Order of the Servites of the Blessed Virgin Mary, 
very celebrated for an ardent love of God. 



110 APRIL. 



J!2ineteettt!) Dap of 

fTlHE birthday of St. Timon, one of the first seven 
* deacons, who taught first at Berea. Afterwards 
while preaching the word of the Lord at Corinth, 
he was delivered to the flames by the Jews and the 
Greeks ; but remaining uninjured, he ended his mar- 
tyrdom by crucifixion.&mdash;At Melitine, in Armenia, the 
holy martyrs Hermogenes, Caius, Expeditus, Aris- 
tonicus, Rufus and Galatas, crowned on the same 
day.&mdash;At Collioure, in Spain, the holy martyr Vin- 
cent. The same day, the holy martyrs Socrates and 
Denis, who were tarnspierced with lances.&mdash;At Jeru- 
salem, St. Paphnutius, martyr.&mdash;At Canterbury, in 
England, St. Elphege, bishop and martyr.&mdash;At Anti- 
och, in Pisidia, St. George, a bishop, who died in 
exile for the worship of sacred images.&mdash;At Rome, 
pope St. Leo IX., illustrious for his virtues and 
miracles.&mdash;In the monastery of Lobbes, St. Ursmar, 
bishop.&mdash;At Florence, St. Crescent, confessor, dis- 
ciple of the blessed bishop Zenobius. 



Cfie Ctoentietfi Dap of 3prtU 

A T Rome, the holy martyrs Sulpicius and Servilian, 
" who were converted to the faith of Christ by the 
discourses and the miracles of the holy virgin Domi- 
tilla. Having refused to sacrifice to the idols, they 



APRIL. Ill 

were beheaded by Anian, prefect of the city, in the 
persecution of Trajan. The same day, the holy 
martyrs Victor, Zoticus, Zeno, Acindinus, Csesareus, 
Severian, Chrysophorus, Theonas, and Antoninus, 
who suffered martyrdom after undergoing various 
trials.&mdash;At Tomis, in Scy thia, St. Theotimus, bishop, 
whose great sanctity and miracles procured him the 
veneration of unbelieving barbarians.&mdash;At Embrun, 
in France, St. Marcellin, first bishop of that city, 
who by divine inspiration came from Africa with his 
holy companions Vincent and Domninus, and con- 
verted to the faith of Christ the greatest portion of 
the inhabitants of the maritime Alps, by his preach- 
ing and the wonderful prodigies, which he still con- 
tinues to work.&mdash;At Auxerre, St. Marcian, a priest. 
The same day, St. Theodore, confessor, surnamed 
Trichinas, from the rough hair garment which he 
wore. He was renowned for many miracles, but 
especially for his power over the demons. From his 
body issues a liquid which imparts health to the 
sick.&mdash;At Monte-Pulciano, St. Agnes, a virgin, of the 
Order of St. Dominic, celebrated for miracles. 



Cfte toemp*fir$t Dap of 

A T Canterbury, in England, St. Anselm, bishop and 
" Doctor of the Church, who was renowned for 
sanctity and learning.&mdash;In Persia, the birthday of 



112 APRIL. 

St. Simeon, bishop of Seleucia and Ctesiphon. He 
was arrested by order of Sapor, king of Persia, load- 
ed with irons, and presented to the iniquitous tri- 
bunals. As he refused to adore the sun, and openly 
and courageously bore testimony to Jesus Christ, 
he was confined a long time in a dungeon with one 
hundred other confessors, among whom were bish- 
ops, priests, and clerics of various ranks. After- 
wards Usthazanes, the king's foster-father, who had 
been converted from apostasy by Simeon, endured 
martyrdom with great constancy. The day after, 
which was the anniversary of our Lord's Passion, 
the companions of Simeon whom he had feelingly 
exhorted, were beheaded before his eyes, after which 
he met the same fate. With him suffered also several 
distinguished men: Abdechalas and Ananias, his 
priests, with Pusicius, the chief of the royal artificers. 
This last having encouraged Ananias, who seemed 
to falter, died a cruel death, having his tongue drawn 
out through a perforation made in his neck. After 
him, his daughter, who was a consecrated virgin, 
was put to death.&mdash;At Alexandria, the holy martyrs 
Arator, priest, Fortunatus, Felix, Silvius, and Vi- 
talis, who died in prison.&mdash;Also, the Saints Apollo, 
Isacius, and Crotates, who suffered under Diocle- 
tian.&mdash;At Antioch, St. Anastasius Sinaita, bishop. 



APRIL. 113 



Cfie Ctoentp-0econD Dap of aprfl. 

4 T Rome, on the Appian way, the birthday of St. 
^ Soter, pope and martyr.&mdash;In the same city, pope 
St. Caius, who was crowned with martyrdom, under 
the emperor Diocletian.&mdash;At Smyrna, the Saints 
Apelles and Lucius, who were among the first dis- 
ciples of Christ. -The same day, many holy martyrs 
who, the year following the death of St. Simeon, and 
on the anniversary of the Passion of our Lord, were 
put to the sword for the name of Christ throughout 
Persia, under king Sapor. Among those who then 
suffered for the faith were the eunuch Azades, a 
favorite of the king; Milles, a bishop renowned for 
sanctity and miracles; the bishop Acepsimas, with 
one of his priests named James ; also Aithalas and 
Joseph, priests; Azadan and Abdiesus, deacons, and 
many other clerics ; Mareas and Bicor, bishops, with 
twenty other bishops, and nearly two hundred and 
fifty clerics; many monks and consecrated virgins, 
among whom was the sister of St. Simeon, called 
Tarbula, with her maid-servant, who were both killed 
in a most cruel manner by being tied to stakes and 
sawed in twain.&mdash;Also in Persia, the Saints Par- 
menius, Helimenas and Chrysotelus, priests, Lucas 
and Mucius, deacons, whose triumph is related in the 
Acts of Saints Abdon and Sennen.&mdash;At Alexandria, 
the birthday of the martyr St. Leonides, who suf- 
fered under Severus.&mdash;At Lyons, in the persecution 



114 APRIL. 

of Antoninus Verus, St. Epipodius, who was arrested 
with Alexander, his companion, and after undergo- 
ing severe torments, consummated his martyrdom, 
bj decapitation.&mdash;At Sens, St. Leo, bishop and con- 
fessor.&mdash;At Anastasiopolis, St. Theodore, a bishop 
renowned for miracles. 



Cfte CtoentH&irD Dap of 



fll HE birthday of St. George, whose illustrious mar- 
tyrdom is honored by the Church of God among 
the combats of other crowned martyrs.&mdash;At Valence, 
in France, the holy martyrs Felix, priest, Fortunatus 
and Achilleus, deacons, who were sent there to 
preach the word of God by blessed Irenseus, bishop 
of Lyons, and converted the greater portion of that 
city to the faith of Christ. These martyrs were cast 
into prison by the commander Cornelius, were a long 
time scourged, had their legs crushed, were bound 
to wheels in motion, and stifled with smoke whilst 
stretched on the rack, and finally died by the sword. 
In Prussia, the birthday of St. Adalbert, bishop of 
Prague, and martyr, who preached the Gospel to the 
Poles and Hungarians.&mdash;At Milan, St. Marolus, 
bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Toul, in France, St. Ge- 
rard, bishop of that city. 



APRIL. 115 



CtoentHourtfc Dap of 



AT Sevis, in Switzerland, St. Fidelis of Sigmarin- 
" gen, of the Order of Capuchin Minorites, who was 
sent thither to preach the Catholic faith. He was 
put to death by the heretics, and was placed among 
the holy martyrs by the Sovereign Pontiff, Benedict 
XIV.&mdash;At Rome, St. Sabas, a military officer, who 
bravely confessed Christ before the judge when he 
was accused of visiting the Christians in prison. 
For this he was burned with torches and thrown 
into a caldron of boiling pitch, out of which he came 
uninjured. Seventy men were converted to Christ 
at the sight of this miracle, and as they all remained 
unshaken in the confession of the faith, they were 
put to the sword. Sabas, however, terminated his 
martyrdom by being cast into the river.&mdash;At Lyons, 
in France, during the persecution of Verus, the 
birthday of St. Alexander, martyr. After being im- 
prisoned, he was so lacerated by the cruelty of those 
who scourged him, that his ribs and the interior of 
his body were exposed to view. Then he was fas- 
tened to the gibbet of the cross, on which he yielded 
up his blessed soul. Thirty-four others who suf- 
fered with him are commemorated on other days. 
The same day, during the persecution of Diocletian, 
the holy martyrs Eusebius, Neon, Leontius, Lon- 
ginus, and four others, were slain with the sword 
after enduring great torments.&mdash;In England, the 



116 



APRIL. 



demise of St. Mellitus, bishop. Being sent thither 
by St. Gregory, he converted to the faith the East- 
Saxons and their king.&mdash;At Elvira, in Spain, St. 
Gregory, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Brescia, St. 
Honorius, bishop.&mdash;In Ireland, St. Egbert, priest 
and monk, a man of admirable humility and conti- 
nency.&mdash;At Rheims, the holy virgins Bona and Doda. 



C&e Ctoentp-fiftft Dap of 

AT Alexandria, the birthday of blessed Mark, 
evangelist, disciple and interpreter of the apostle 
St. Peter. He wrote his gospel at the request of the 
faithful of Rome, and taking it with him, proceeded 
to Egypt and founded a church at Alexandria, where 
he was the first to announce Christ. Afterwards, 
being arrested for the faith, he was bound, dragged 
over stones and endured great afflictions. Finally 
he was confined to prison, where, being comforted 
by the visit of an angel, and even by an apparition 
of our Lord himself, he was called to the heavenly 
kingdom in the eighth year of the reign of Nero. 
At Rome, the great Litanies in the church of St. 
Peter.&mdash;At Syracuse, the holy martyrs Evodius, Her- 
mogenes, and Callistus.&mdash;At Antioch, St. Stephen, 
bishop and martyr, who suffered much from the 
heretics opposed to the Council of Chalcedon, and 
was precipitated into the river Orontes, in the time 



APEIL. 117 

of the emperor Zeno.&mdash;In the same city, the Saints 
Philo and Agathopodes, deacons.&mdash;At Alexandria, 
the bishop St. Anian, disciple of blessed Mark, and 
his successor in the episcopate. With a great re- 
nown for virtue, he rested in the Lord.&mdash;At Lobbes, 
the birthday of St. ErmiDus, bishop and confessor. 



Dap of 

A T Rome, the birthday of blessed Cletns, pope who 
" governed the Church the second after the apostle 
St. Peter, and was crowned with martyrdom in the 
persecution of Domitian.&mdash;In the same city, in the 
time of Maximian, St. Marcellinus, pope and martyr, 
who was beheaded for the faith of Christ, with 
Claudius, Cyrinus, and Antoninus. So great was 
the persecution at this time that within a month 
seventeen thousand Christians were crowned with 
martyrdom.&mdash;At Amasea, in Pontus, St. Basileus, 
bishop and martyr, whose illustrious martyrdom 
occurred under the emperor Licinius. His body was 
thrown into the sea; but being found by Elpidipho- 
rus, through the revelation of an angel, it was hon- 
orably entombed.&mdash;At Braga, in Portugal, St. Peter, 
martyr, the first bishop of that city.&mdash;At Venice, St. 
Clarence, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Verona, St. 
Lucidius, bishop.&mdash;In the monastery of Centula, St. 
Richarius, priest and confessor.&mdash;At Troyes, St. Ex- 
uperantia, virgin. 



118 APRIL. 

Cfie Ctoemp^etoent!) Dag of 

A T Nicomedia, during the persecution of Diocle- 
" tian, the birthday of St. Anthimus, bishop and 
martyr, who obtained the glory of martyrdom for 
the faith by decapitation. Nearly all his numerous 
flock followed him; the judge ordered some to be 
beheaded, some to be buried alive, and others to be 
put in boats and sunk in the sea.&mdash;At Tarsus, in 
Cilicia, the Saints Castor and Stephen, martyrs. 
At Rome, the demise of the blessed pope Anastatius, 
a man most rich in his poverty, and filled with apos- 
tolic zeal, whom Rome, says St. Jerome, did not de- 
serve to possess long, lest the capital of the world 
should be devastated under such a bishop; for 
shortly after his death Rome was taken and sacked 
by the Goths.&mdash;At Bologna, St. Tertullian, bishop 
and confessor.&mdash;At Brescia, the bishop St. Theoph- 
il us .&mdash;At Constantinople, the abbot St. John, who 
combated vigorously for the worship of holy images, 
under Leo the Isaurian.&mdash;At Tarragona, the blessed 
Peter Armengaudius, of the Order of Blessed Mary 
of Mercy for the Redemption of Captives, who en- 
dured many tribulations in Africa in ransoming the 
faithful, and finally closed his career peacefully in 
the convent of St. Mary of the Meadows.&mdash;At Lucca 
in Italy, blessed Zita, a virgin renowned for virtues 
and miracles, whose festival is celebrated on this 
day, conformably to the decree of the Sovereign Pon- 
tiff, Leo X. 



APRIL. 119 



Cfte Ctoemp*etgtni) Dap of 

T. PAUL of the Cross, a man remarkable for inno- 
cence of life and for the spirit of penance, and 
Founder of the Congregation of the Cross and Pas- 
sion of our Lord Jesus Christ. Consumed with a 
burning love for Christ crucified, illustrious by his 
heavenly gifts and the working of miracles, and 
blessed with a perfect and finished virtue, he went 
to his repose in the Lord.&mdash;At Ravenna, the birth- 
day of St. Vitalis, martyr, father of the saints Ger- 
vasius and Protasius. When he had taken up and 
reverently buried the body of blessed Ursicinus, he 
was arrested by the ex-consul Paulinus, and after be- 
ing racked, and thrown into a deep pit, was over- 
whelmed with earth and stones, and by this kind of 
martyrdom went to Christ.&mdash;At Milan, the martyr St. 
Valeria, who was the wife of St. Vitalis.&mdash;At&mdash;Atino r 
St. Mark, who being made biship by the blessed apos 
tie Peter, was the first to preach the Gospel to the in- 
habitants of that region, and received the crown of 
martyrdom in the persecution of Domitian, under 
the governor Maximus.&mdash;At Alexandria, the martyr- 
dom of the virgin St. Theodora. For refusing to 
sacrifice to idols, she was led to a place of debauch; 
but. a Christian, named Didymus, through the ad- 
mirable providence of God, delivered her by quickly 
exchanging garments with her. He was afterwards 
decapitated, and crowned with her in the persecution 



120 APRIL. 

of Diocletian, under the governor Eustratius. The 
same day, the saints Aphrodisius, Caralippus, 
Agapius, and Eusebius, martyrs.&mdash;In Pannonia, St. 
Pollio, martyr, under the emperor Diocletian.&mdash;At 
Prusa, in Bithynia, the holy martyrs Patritius, 
bishop, Acatius, Menander, and Polyenus.&mdash;At Tar- 
razona, in Spain, St. Prudentius, bishop and mar- 
tyr.&mdash;At Pelino, in Abruzzo, St. Pamphilus, bishop 
of Valva, illustrious by his charity towards the poor, 
and the gift of miracles. His body was buried at 
Solmona. 



Cfte CtoentjMimtft Dag of 3prfl* 

AT Milan, St. Peter, martyr, of the Order of 
" Preachers, slain by the heretics for the Catholic 
faith.&mdash;At Paphos, in Cyprus, St. Tychicus, a dis- 
ciple of the blessed apostle Paul, who called him in 
his epistles most dear brother, faithful minister, and 
fellow-servant in the Lord.&mdash;At Cirtha, in Numidia, 
the birthday of the holy martyrs Agapius and Secun- 
dinus, bishops, who, after a long exile in that city, 
added to the glory of their priesthood the crown of 
martyrdom. They suffered in the persecution of Va- 
lerian, during which the enraged Gentiles made 
every effort to shake the faith of the just.&mdash;In their 
company, suffered JSmilian, soldier, Tertulla and 
Antonia, consecrated virgin, and a woman with her 



APEIL. 121 

twin children. The same day, seven robbers, who, 
being converted to Christ by St. Jason, attained to 
eternal life by martyrdom.&mdash;At Brescia, St. Pau- 
linus, bishop and confessor.&mdash;In the monastery of 
Cluny, the abbot St. Hugh.&mdash;In the monastery of 
Molesmes, St. Robert, first abbot of the Cistercians. 



C6e CfiirtietJ) Dap of 

AT Rome, St. Catherine of Siena, virgin, of the 
" Order of St. Dominic, renowned for her life and 
miracles. She was inscribed among the canonized 
virgins by Pius II.&mdash;At Lambesa, in Numidia, the 
birthday of the holy martyrs Marian, lector, and 
James, deacon. The former, after having success- 
fully endured vexations for the confession of Christ, 
in the persecution of Decius, was again arrested 
with his illustrious companion, and both being sub- 
jected to severe and cruel torments, during which 
they were twice miraculously comforted from heaven, 
finally fell by the sword with many others.&mdash;At 
Saintes, blessed Eutropius, bishop and martyr, who 
was consecrated bishop and sent to Gaul by St. 
Clement. After preaching for many years, he had 
his skull crushed for bearing testimony to Christ, 
and thus gained a victory by his death.&mdash;At Cor- 
dova, the holy martyrs Amator, priest, Peter, monk, 



122 APRIL. 

and Lewis.&mdash;At Novara, the martyrdom of the holy 
priest Lawrence, and some boys, whom he was edu- 
cating.&mdash;At Alexandria, the holy martyrs Aphro- 
disius, priest, and thirty others.&mdash;At Ephesus, St. 
Maximus, martyr, who was crowned in the perse- 
cution of Decius.&mdash;At Fermo, in the Marches, St. 
Sophia, virgin and martyr.&mdash;At Naples, in Cam- 
pania, St. Severus, bishop, who, among other prodi- 
gies, raised for a short time a dead man from the 
grave, in order to convict of falsehood the lying 
creditor of a widow and her children.&mdash;At Evorea, 
in Epirus, St. Donatus, a bishop, who was eminent 
for sanctity in the time of the emperor Theodosius. 
At London, in England, St. Erconwald, a bishop cele- 
brated for many miracles. 



MAY. 




Cfte jfirst Dap of 



(HE birthday of the blessed apostles Philip 
and James. Philip, after having converted 
nearly all Scythia to the faith of Christ, 
went to Hierapolis, in Asia, where he was 
fastened to a cross, overwhelmed with stones, and 
thus terminated his life gloriously. James, who is 
also called the brother of our Lord, was the first 
bishop of Jerusalem. Being hurled down from a 
pinnacle of the temple, he had his legs broken, and 
being then struck on the head with a dyer's staff, he 
expired, and was buried near the temple.&mdash;In Egypt, 
St. Jeremias, prophet, w T ho was stoned to death by 
the people at. Taphnas, where he was interred. St. 
Epiphanius relates that the faithful were wont to 
pray at his grave, and to take away from it dust to 
heal those who were stung by serpents.&mdash;In France, 
in the province of Vivarais, blessed Andeol, sub- 
deacon, who was sent from the East into Gaul with 
others by St. Polycarp to preach the word of God. 
Under the emperor Severus he was scourged with 
thorny sticks, and having his head split with a 



124 MAY. 

wooden sword into four parts, in the shape of a 
cross, terminated his martyrdom.&mdash;At Huesca, in 
Spain, the holy martyrs Orentius and Patience.&mdash;At 
Sion, in Switzerland, St. Sigismund, king of the Bur- 
gundians, who was drowned in a well, and after- 
wards became renowned for miracles.&mdash;At Auxerre, 
St. Amator, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Auch, St. 
Orientius, bishop.&mdash;In England, the Saints Asaph, 
bishop, and Walburge, virgin.&mdash;At Bergamo, St. 
Grata, widow.&mdash;At Forli, St. Peregrinus, of the 
Order of the Servites of the Blessed Virgin Mary. 



Cfie SeconD Dap of 

AT Alexandria, the birthday of St.&mdash;Athauasius, 
** bishop of that city and Doctor of the Church, 
most celebrated for sanctity and learning. Although 
almost all the world had formed a conspiracy to 
persecute him, he courageously defended the Catholic 
faith, from the reign of Constantine t.o that of Va- 
lens, against emperors, governors, and a multitude 
of Arian bishops, whose perfidious attacks forced 
him to wander as an exile over the whole earth with- 
out finding a place of security.&mdash;At length, however, 
he was restored to his church, and after fighting 
many combats, and winning many crowns by his 
patience, he departed for heaven in the forty-sixth 
year of his priesthood, in the time of the emperors 



MAY. 125 

Valentinian and Valens.&mdash;At Rome, the holy mar- 
tyrs Saturninus, Neopolus, Germanus, and Celestine, 
who after much suffering were thrown into prison, 
where they rested in the Lord.&mdash;Also the holy mar- 
tyrs Exuperius and Zoe, his wife, with their sons, 
Cyriacus and Theodulus, who suffered under the 
emperor Adrian.&mdash;At Seville, St. Felix, deacon and 
martyr. The^same day, St. Vindemial, bishop and 
martyr, who with the holy bishops Eugenius and 
Longinus, combated the Arians by his teaching and 
miracles, and was decapitated by order of king 
Hunneric.&mdash;At Avila, in Spain, St. Secundus, bishop, 
who is also mentioned with others on the 15th of 
this month.&mdash;At Florence, the bishop St. Antoninus, 
of the Order of Preachers, renowned for holiness 
and learning. His feast is kept on the 10th of this 
month. 



Cfie CftitD Dag of 

A T Jerusalem, the finding of the holy cross of our 
** Lord, in the time of the emperor Constantine. 
At Rome, on the Nomentan road, the holy martyrs 
Alexander, pope, Eventius and Theodulus, priests. 
Alexander was bound, imprisoned, racked, lacerated 
with hooks, burned, pierced in all his limbs with 
pointed instruments, and finally put to death, under 
the emperor Adrian and the judge Aurelian. Even- 



126 MAY. 

tins and Theodulus, after a long imprisonment were 
exposed to the flames, and then beheaded.&mdash;At Xarni, 
St. Juvenal, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Constanti- 
nople, the holy martyrs Alexander, soldier, and An- 
tonina, virgin.&mdash;In the persecution of Maximian, un- 
der the governor Festus, Antonina, having been con- 
demned to remain in a honse of debanch ? was deliv- 
ered by Alexander, who secretly exchanging garments 
with her, took her place. They were, tortnred to- 
gether, and both having their hands cnt off, and 
being cast into the fire, were crowned at the end of 
their noble combat for the faith.&mdash;In Thebais,-the 
holy martyrs Timothy and his wife Manra. The 
Arian prefect caused them to be tortured, and then 
fastened to a cross, on which remaining suspended 
and alive for nine days, and encouraging each oth^r 
to persevere in the faith, they consummated their 
martyrdom.&mdash;At Aphrodisia, in Caria, the holy mar- 
tyrs Diodorus and Rodopian, who were stoned to 
death by their fellow-citizens, in the persecution of 
Diocletian. On Mount Senario, near Florence, the 
blessed Sostenaeus and Uguccio, confessors, who 
responding to a voice from heaven, departed this 
life on the same day and at the same hour, while 
reciting the angelical saluation. 



MAY. 127 



Cfte JFourtf) Dap of 

AT Ostia, the birthday of St. Monica, mother of 
" blessed Augustine, who has left us in the ninth 
book of his Confessions a beautiful sketch of her 
life.&mdash;At the metal mines of Phennes, in Palestine, 
the birthday of the blessed Silvanus, bishop of Gaza, 
who was crowned with martyrdom with many of his 
clerics by the command of Ctesar Galerius Maxini- 
ian, in the persecution of Diocletian.&mdash;Also, thirty- 
nine holy martyrs, who were beheaded together after 
having been condemned to work in the same mines, 
to be branded with a hot iron, and to undergo other 
torments.&mdash;At Jerusalem, in the reign of Julian the 
Apostate, St. Cyriacus, bishop, who was murdered 
as he was visiting the holy places.&mdash;In Umbria, St. 
Porphyry, martyr.&mdash;At Xicomedia, the birthday of 
St. Antonia, martyr, who, for the confession of 
Christ, was cruelly tortured, subjected to diverse 
torments, suspended by one arm for three days, kept 
two years in prison, and finally delivered to the 
flames by the governor Priscillian.&mdash;At Lorch, in 
Austria, under the emperor Diocletian and the gov- 
ernor Aquilinus, the martyr St. Florian, who was 
precipitated into the river Enns, with a stone tied 
to his neck.&mdash;At Tarsus, St. Pelagia, virgin, who en- 
dured martyrdom under Diocletian by being shut up 
within a red-hot brazen ox.&mdash;At Cologne, St. Pau- 
linus, martyr.&mdash;At Milan, St. Venerius, bishop, 



128 MAY. 

whose virtues are attested by St. John Chrysostom 
in the epistle which he wrote to him.&mdash;In the prov- 
ince of Perigord, St. Sacerdos, bishop of Limoges. 
At Hildesheim, in Saxony, St. Godard, bishop and 
confessor, ranked among the Saints by&mdash;Innocent II. 
At Auxerre, St. Curcodomus, deacon. 



Cfie JFiftf) Dap of 

A T Rome, pope St. Pius V., of the Order of Preach- 
ers, who labored zealously and successfully for 
the re-establishment of ecclesiastical discipline, the 
extirpation of heresies, the destruction of the ene- 
mies of the Christian name, and governed the Cath- 
olic Church by holy laws and the example of a 
saintly life.&mdash;Also at Home, St. Crescentiana, mar- 
tyr.&mdash;In the same city, St. Sylvanus, martyr.&mdash;At 
Alexandria, St. Euthymius, deacon, who died in 
prison for Christ.&mdash;At Thessalonica, the birthday of 
the holy martyrs Irenseus, Peregrinus and Irenes, 
who were burned alive.&mdash;At Auxerre, the martyrdom 
of St. Jovinian, lector.&mdash;At Leocata, in Sicily, St. 
Angelus, a priest of the Order of Carmelites, who 
was murdered by the heretics for defending the 
Catholic faith.&mdash;At Jerusalem, St. Maximus, bishop 
and confessor, whom the Ca3sar Maximian Galerius 
condemned to work in the mines, after having 
plucked out one of his eyes and branded him on the 



MAY. 129 

foot with hot iron.&mdash;At Edessa, in Syria, St. Eulo- 
gius, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Aries, in France, St. 
Hilary, bishop, noted for his learning and holiness. 
At Vienne, the bishop St. N icetus, a man venerable 
for his sanctity.&mdash;At Bologna, St. Theodore, a bishop 
who was eminent for merits. The same day, St. 
Sacerdos, bishop of Saguntum.&mdash;At Milan, St. Ge- 
runtius, bishop.&mdash;In the same city, the conversion 
of St. Augustine, bishop and doctor of the Church, 
whom the blessed bishop Ambrose instructed in the 
Catholic faith, and baptized on this day. 



C6e Sfetft Dag of 

AT Rome, the feast of St. John before the Latin 
^ Gate. Being bound and brought to Rome from 
Ephesus by the order of Domitian, he was condemned 
by the Senate to be cast, near the said gate, into a 
vessel of boiling oil, from which he came out more 
healthy and vigorous than before.&mdash;At Antioch, St. 
Evodius, who, as the blessed Ignatius wrote to the 
people of Antioch, was consecrated first bishop of 
that city by the apostle St. Peter, and ended his life 
by a glorious martyrdom.&mdash;At Cyrene, St. Lucius, 
bishop, who is mentioned by St. Luke, in the Acts 
of the Apostles.&mdash;In Africa, the holy martyrs Heli- 
odorus and Venustus, with seventy-five others.&mdash;In 
Cyprus, St. Theodotus, bishop of Cyrinia, who hav- 



130 MAY. 

ing undergone grievous afflictions under the emperor 
Licinius, at length yielded his soul to God, when 
peace was restored to the Church.&mdash;At Damascus, 
the birthday of the blessed John Damescene, re- 
nowned for sanctity and learning, who, by both the 
written and the spoken word, courageously resisted 
Leo the Isaurian, in defending the worship paid to 
sacred images. By order of this emperor his right 
hand was cut off, but commending himself to an 
image of the blessed Virgin Mary, which he had de : 
fended, his hand was immediately restored to him 
entire and sound.&mdash;At Carrhae, in Mesopotamia, St. 
Protogenes, bishop.&mdash;In England, St. Eadbert, bishop 
of Lindisfarne, eminent for doctrine and piety.&mdash;At 
Rome, St. Benedicta, virgin.&mdash;At Salerno, the Trans- 
lation of St. Matthew, apostle. His sacred body 
previously transferred from Ethiopia to various 
countries, was finally taken to Salerno, and there 
with great pomp placed in a church dedicated under 
his invocation. 



Cfte Setoemi) Dap of 

AT Cracow, in Poland, the birthday of St. Stanis- 
" laus, bishop and martyr, who was murdered by 
the wicked king Boleslas.&mdash;At Terracina, in Cam- 
pania, the birthday of blessed Flavia Domitilla, vir- 
gin and martyr, niece of the Consul Flavius Clemens. 



MAY. 131 

She received the religious veil at the hands of St. 
Clement, and in the persecution of Domitian was 
exiled with many others to the island of Pontia, 
where she endured a long martyrdom for Christ. 
Taken afterwards to Terracina, she converted many 
to the faith of Christ by her teaching and miracles. 
The judge ordered the chamber in which she was 
with the virgins Euphrosina and Theodora, to be set 
on fire, and she thus consummated her glorious mar- 
tyrdom. She is also mentioned with the holy mar- 
tyrs Nereus ad Achilleus, on the 12th of this month. 
The same day, St. Juvenal, martyr.&mdash;At Nico- 
media, the holy martyrs Flavius, Augustus, 
and Augustine, brothers.&mdash;In the same city, St. 
Quadratus, martyr, who was frequently tortured in 
the persecution of Decius, and at last decapitated. 
At Rome, St. Benedict, pope and confessor.&mdash;At 
York, in England, St. John, bishop renowned for 
his saintly life and miracles.&mdash;At Pavia, the bishop 
St. Peter.&mdash;At Rome, the translation of the body of 
St. Stephen, the first martyr, which was brought 
from Constantinople to Rome, and laid in the sepul- 
chre of the martyr St. Lawrence in the field of Ve- 
rano, where it is honored with great devotion by the 
pious faithful. 



132 MAY. 



C6e OBifffttf) Dap of 



AN Mount Gargano, the apparition of the Arch- 
" angel St. Michael.&mdash;At Milan, the birthday of the 
holy martyr Victor, a Moor. He became a Christian 
in his youth, and served as soldier in the imperial 
army. When Maximian wished to force him to offer 
sacrifice to idols, he persevered with the greatest 
fortitude in the confession of the Lord. Being first 
beaten with rods, but without experiencing any pain, 
through the protection of God, and then having 
melted lead poured over him, which did him no 
injury whatever, he at length terminated the career 
of his glorious martyrdom by being beheaded.&mdash;At 
Constantinople, in the persecution of Diocletian and 
Maximian, St. Acathius, a centurion, 'who, being de- 
nounced as a Christian by the tribune Firmus, and 
cruelly tortured at Perinthus by the judge Bibian, 
was finally condemned to death at Byzantium by the 
proconsul Flaccinus. His body was afterwards 
miraculously brought to the shore of Syllacium, 
where it is preserved with due honor.&mdash;At Vienne, 
St. Denis, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Auxerre, St. 
Helladius, bishop.&mdash;In the diocese of Besancon, St. 
Peter, bishop.&mdash;In Ireland, St. Wiro, bishop. 



MAY. 133 



Cfie Ji2im& Dap of 

A T Nazianzus, the birthday of St. Gregory, bishop 
and doctor of the church, surnamed the Theolo- 
gian, because of his remarkable knowledge of divin- 
ity.&mdash;At Constantinople, he restored the Catholic 
faith, which was fast waning, and repressed the ris- 
ing heresies.&mdash;At Rome, St. Hennas, mentioned by 
the apostle St. Paul in the epistle to the Romans. 
Generously sacrificing himself, he became an offering 
acceptable to God, and adorned with virtues took 
his departure for the heavenly kingdom.&mdash;In Persia, 
three hundred and ten holy martyrs.&mdash;At Caglio, on 
the Flaminian road, the passion of St. Gerontius, 
bishop of Cervia.&mdash;In the castle of Windisch, the 
decease of St. Beatus, confessor.&mdash;At Constantinople, 
the translation of the apostle St. Andrew and the 
evangelist St. Luke, out of Achaia, and of Timothy, 
disciple of the blessed apostle Paul, from Ephesus. 
The body of St. Andrew, long after, was conveyed 
to Amalfi, where it is honored by the pious concourse 
of the faithful. From his tomb continually issues a 
liquid which heals diseases.&mdash;At Rome, also, the 
translation of St. Jerome, priest and doctor of the 
Church, from Bethlehem of Juda, to the basilica of 
St. Mary of the manger.&mdash;At Bari, in Apulia, the 
translation likewise of the holy bishop Nicholas, 
from Myra, a town of Lycia. 



134 MAY. 



Cfte Centft Dap of 

T. . ANTONINUS, confessor and archbishop of 
Florence, whose birthday is the 2d of May.&mdash;At 
Rome, on the Latin road, the birthday of the holy 
martyrs Gordian and Epimachus.&mdash;In the time of 
Julian the Apostate, the former was a long time 
scourged and finally decapitated for confessing the 
name of Christ. He was buried at nigth by the 
Christians, in a crypt to which, shortly before, the 
remains of the blessed martyr Epimachus had been 
translated from Alexandria, where he had been mar- 
tyred for the faith of Christ.&mdash;In the land of Hus, 
the holy prophet Job, a man of wonderful patience. 
At Rome, the blessed priest and martyr Calepo- 
dius, who was killed with the sword, by order of the 
emperor Alexander. His body was dragged through 
the city and thrown into the Tiber. It was after- 
wards found and buried by Pope Callistus. The 
consul Palmatius was also beheaded with his wife, 
his sons, and forty-two of both sexes belonging to 
his household; likewise, the senator Simplicius with 
his wife, and sixty-eight of his house; Felix also 
with his wife Blanda. The heads of all these mar- 
tyrs were exposed over different gates of the city, 
to terrify the Christians.&mdash;Also, at Rome, on the 
Latin way, the birthday of the holy martyrs Quartus 
and Quinctus, whose bodies were translated to 
Capua.&mdash;At Lentini, in Sicily, the holy martyrs 



MAY. 135 

Alphius, Philadelpus, and Cyrinus.&mdash;At Smyrna, 
St. Dioscorides, martyr.&mdash;At Bologna, blessed Nich- 
olas Albergati, a Carthusian monk, bishop of that 
city, and Cardinal of the holy Eoman Church, cele- 
brated for his holiness and Legations Apostolic. 
His body was buried at Florence, in the monastery 
of the Carthusians.&mdash;At Taranto, St. Cataldus, a 
bishop renowned for miracles.&mdash;At Milan, the finding 
of the bodies of the holy martyrs Nazarius and Cel- 
sus. The blessed bishop Ambrose found the body of 
St. Nazarius covered with blood still fresh, which 
he translated to the basilica of the Apostles, to- 
gether with the body of the blessed boy Celsus, whom 
Nazarius had brought up, and whom Anolinus, in 
the persecution of Nero, had ordered to be struck 
with the sword on the 28th of July, the day when 
their martyrdom is commemorated.&mdash;At Madrid, St. 
Isidore, a laborer. Being renowned for miracles, 
pope Gregory XV. placed him in the number of the 
Saints at the same time with St. Ignatius, St. Fran- 
cis, St. Theresa, and St. Philip. 



OElefcentf) Dag of 

AT Rome, on the Salarian road, the birthday of 
^ blessed Anthimus, priest, who, after having dis- 
tinguished himself by his virtues and preaching, was 
precipitated into the Tiber, in the persecution of 



136 MAY. 

Diocletian. He was rescued by an angel, and re- 
stored to his oratory. Being afterwards decapitated, 
he went victoriously to heaven. The same day, St. 
Evelius, martyr, who belonged to the household of 
Nero. On seeing the martyrdom of St. Torpes, he 
believed in Christ, and for Him was beheaded.&mdash;Also, 
at Eome, the holy martyrs Maximus, Bassus, and 
Fabius, who were put to death on the Salarian way, 
in the time of Diocletian.&mdash;At Camerino, the holy 
martyrs Anastasius and his companions, who were 
killed in the persecution of Decius, under the gov- 
ernor Antiochus.&mdash;At Osimo,in the March of Ancona, 
the holy martyrs Sisinus, a deacon, Diocletius and 
Florentius, disciples of the priest St. Anthimus, who 
consummated their martyrdom under Diocletian by 
being overwhelmed with stones.&mdash;At Varennes, St. 
Gangulpus, martyr.&mdash;At Vienne, St. Mamertus, 
bishop, who, to avert an impending calamity, insti- 
tuted in that city the three days' Litanies immedi- 
ately before the Ascension of our Lord. This rite 
was afterwards received and approved by the uni- 
versal Church.&mdash;At Souvigny, the decease of St. 
Maieul, abbot of Cluny, whose life was distinguished 
for merits and holiness.&mdash;At San Severino, in the 
March of Ancona, St. Illuminatus, confessor.&mdash;At 
Grottaglia, in the diocese of Taranto, St. Francis 
Girolamo, confessor, of the Society of Jesus, re- 
nowned for his zeal for the salvation of souls, and 
for his patience. He was canonized by pope Gregory 
XVI. The day of his death is celebrated with great 



MAY. 137 

solemnity in the church of the professed house, at 
Naples, where his body rests. 



C6e Ctoelftf) Dap of 

4 T Home, on the Ardeatine road, the holy martyrs 
^ Nereus and Achilleus, brothers, who first under- 
went a long exile for Christ in the island of Pontia 
with Flavia Domitilla, whose chamberlains they 
were. Afterwards they endured a most severe 
scourging. Finally, as the ex-consul Minutius Ru- 
fus endeavored by using the rack and fire to force 
them to offer sacrifices, they said, that having been 
baptized by the blessed Apostle Peter, they could by 
no means sacrifice to idols. They were beheaded, 
and their sacred relics, with those of Flavia Domi- 
tilla, were, by order of pope Clement VIII., solemnly 
transferred the day before this, from the sacristy of 
St. Adrian to their ancient church now repaired, in 
which they were formerly preserved.&mdash;In the same 
place, on the Aurelian road, the holy martyr Pancra- 
tius, who, at fourteen years of age, endured martyr- 
dom by decapitation under Diocletian.&mdash;Also, at 
Rome, St. Denis, uncle of the same blessed Pancra- 
tius.&mdash;In Sicily, St. Philip Argyrio, who was sent to 
that island by the Roman Pontiff, and converted to 
Christ a great portion of it. His sanctity is par- 
ticularly manifested by the deliverance of possessed 



138 MAY. 

persons.&mdash;At Salamis, in Cyprus, St. Epiphanius, a 
bishop of great erudition and profound knowledge 
of the holy Scriptures. He was also admirable for 
the sanctity of his life, his zeal for the Catholic faith, 
his charity to the poor, and the gift of miracles. 
At Constantinople, St. Germanus, a bishop distin- 
guished by virtues and learning, who with great 
courage reprehended Leo the Isaurian for promul- 
gating an edict against holy images.&mdash;At Treves, 
St. Modoaldus, bishop.&mdash;At Calzada, St. Dominic, 
confessor. 



Cfie Cinrteenti) Dap of 

T Rome, in the time of the emperor Phocas, the 
dedication of the church of St. Mary of the Mar- 
tyrs, formerly a temple of all the gods, called Pan- 
theon, which was purified and dedicated by the 
blessed pope Boniface IV. to the honor of the blessed 
Mary ever Virgin, and of all the martyrs.&mdash;At Con- 
stantinople, under the emperor Diocletian and the 
proconsul Laudicius, the blessed Lucius, a priest 
and martyr, who first at Amphipolis endured many 
tribulations and torments for the confession of 
Christ, and then being led to Byzantium, suffered 
capital punishment.&mdash;At Heraclea, the martyr St. 
Glyceria, a native of Rome, who suffered under the 
emperor Antoninus and the governor Sabinus.&mdash;At 



MAY. 139 

Alexandria, the commemoration of many holy mar- 
tyrs, who were killed by the Arians for the Catholic 
faith in the church of St. Theonas.&mdash;At Maestricht, 
St. Servatius, bishop of Tongres, whose grave, as a 
public sign of his merit, was free from snow during 
winter (though everything around was covered with 
it), until the inhabitants built a church over it.&mdash;In 
Palestine, St. John the Silent&mdash;At Valladolid, St. 
Peter Regalati, confessor, of the Order of Minorites, 
restorer of regular discipline in the monasteries of 
Spain. He was numbered among the Saints by the 
Sovereign Pontiff, Benedict XIV. 



Cfte jFourteemj) Dap of 

fFHE birthday of the holy martyr Boniface, who 
- suffered at Tarsus, in Cilicia, under Diocletian 
and Maximian. His body was subsequently carried 
to Home, and buried on the Latin road.&mdash;In France, 
St. Pontius, martyr. Having by his preaching and 
his zeal converted to the faith of Christ the two 
Caesars Philip, he obtained the palm of martyrdom 
under the emperors Valerian and Gallienus.&mdash;In 
Syria, the holy martyrs Victor and Corona, under 
the emperor Antoninus. Victor was subjected to 
various horrible torments by the judge Sebastian. 
As Corona, the wife of a certain soldier, was pro- 
claiming him happy for his fortitude in his suffer- 



140 MAY. 

ings, she saw two crowns falling from heaven, one for 
Victor, the other for herself. She related this to all 
present, and was torn to pieces between two trees; 
Victor was beheaded.&mdash;In Sardinia, the holy mar- 
tyrs Justa, Justina, and Henedina.&mdash;At Rome, pope 
St. Paschal, who took up from the crypts many 
bodies of the holy martyrs, and placed them honor- 
ably in various churches.&mdash;At Ferentino, in Tuscany, 
the holy bishop Boniface, who was renowned from 
his childhood for holiness and miracles, as is related 
by the blessed pope Gregory.&mdash;At Naples, in Cam- 
pania, St. Pomponius, bishop.&mdash;In Egypt, St. Pacho- 
mius, an abbot, who erected many monasteries in 
that country, and wrote a monastic rule, which was 
dictated to him by an angel. 



jfifteem!) Dap of 

A T Rouen, St. John Baptist de la Salle, confessor, 
-" who deserved well both of religion and society 
by his labors for the education of youth, especially 
of the poor, and by the founding of the Society of the 
Brothers of the Christian Schools.&mdash;In Spain, the 
Saints Torquatus, Ctesiphon, Secundus,&mdash;Indaletius, 
Caecilius, Hesychius, and Euphrasius, who were con- 
secrated bishops at Rome by the holy apostles, and 
sent to Spain to preach the word of God. When 



MAY. 141 

they had evangelized various cities, and brought in- 
numerable multitudes under the yoke of Christ, they 
rested in peace in various parts of that country: 
Torquatus at Cadiz, Ctesiphon at Vierco, Secundus 
at Avila,&mdash;Indaletius at Portilla, Caecilius at Elvira, 
Hesychius at Gibraltar, and Euphrasius at Anduxar. 
At Evora, in Portugal, St. Mancius, martyr.&mdash;In 
the island of Chio, the birthday of blessed Isidore, 
martyr, in whose church is a well into which he is 
said to have been thrown. By drinking of the water 
from this well, the sick are frequently cured.&mdash;At 
Lampsacum, in Hellespont, the martyrdom of the 
Saints Peter, Andrew, Paul, 'and Dionysja.&mdash;At 
Fausina, in Sardinia, in the time of Diocletian and 
the governor Barbarus, St. Simplicius, a bishop, 
who consummated his martyrdom by being t^ans- 
pierced with a lance.&mdash;At Clermont, in Auvergne, 
the holy martyrs Cassius, Victorinus, Maximus, and 
their companions.&mdash;In Brabant, St. Dympna, virgin 
and martyr, daughter of an Irish king. By order 
of her father, she was beheaded for the faith of 
Christ and the preservation of her virginity. 



Cfie Sfeteentft Dag of 

AT Gubbio, St. Ubaldus, a bishop renowned for 
" miracles.&mdash;In Isauria, the birthday of the holy 
martyrs Aquillinus and Victorian.&mdash;At Auxerre, the 



142 MAY. 

passion of St. Peregrinus, first bishop of that city. 
He was sent into Gaul with other clerics by the 
blessed pope Xystus, and having accomplished his 
work of preaching the Gospel, he merited an ever 
lasting crown by being condemned to capital punish- 
ment.&mdash;At Uzalis, in Africa, the holy martyrs Felix 
and Gennadius.&mdash;In Palestine, the martyrdom of 
the holy monks massacred by the Saracens in the 
monastery of St. Sabas.&mdash;In Persia, the holy martyrs 
Audas, a bishop, seven priests, nine deacons and 
seven virgins, who endured various kinds of tormen ts 
under king Isdegerdes, and thus gloriously consum- 
mated their martyrdom.&mdash;At Prague, in Bohemia, 
St. John Nepomucen, a canon of the metropolitan 
church, who, being tempted in vain to betray the 
secret of confession, was cast into the river Moldau, 
and thus won the palm of martyrdom.&mdash;At Amiens, 
in France, the bishop St. Honoratus.&mdash;At Le Mans, 
St. Domnolus, bishop.&mdash;At Mirandola, in ^Emilia, 
St. Possidius, bishop of Calamae, discple of St. Au- 
gustine, and the writer of his glorious life.&mdash;At 
Troyes, St. Fidolus, confessor.&mdash;In Ireland, St. 
Brendan, abbot.&mdash;At Frejus, St. Maxima, virgin, 
who rested in peace with a reputation for many 
virtues. 



MAY. 143 



Cfie SefcenteentJ) Dap of 

A T Villareal, in the kingdom of Valencia, St. Pas- 
" cal, of the Order of Minorites, a man remarkable 
for innocence of life and the spirit of penance. Pope 
Leo XIII. declared him heavenly patron of Euchar- 
istic Congresses and Societies formed in honor of the 
Most Blessed Sacrament.&mdash;At Pisa, in Tuscany, the 
holy martyr Torpes, who filled a high office in the 
court of Nero, and was one of those of whom the 
apostle St. Paul wrote from Rome to the Philip- 
pians: "All the saints salute you, especially those 
that are of the house of Caesar." For the faith of 
Christ, he was, by order of Satellicus, buffeted, cru- 
elly scourged and delivered to the beasts to be de- 
voured, but being uninjured, he at last terminated 
his martyrdom by decapitation on the 29th of April. 
His feast, however, is kept on this day, on account 
of the translation of his body. The same day, St. 
Eestituta, virgin and martyr, who was subjected to 
various kinds of tortures in Africa by the judge 
Proculus, in the reign of Valerian, and then put in a 
boat filled with pitch and tow, to be burnt to death 
on the sea. But the flame turned on those who had 
kindled it, and the saint yielded her spirit to God 
in prayer. Her body was, by divine providence, car- 
ried in the boat to the island of Ischia, near Naples, 
where it was received by the Christians with great 
veneration. A church was afterwards erected in 



144 MAY. 

her honor in that city by Constantine the Great. 
At Noyon, the holy martyrs Heradius, Paul, and 
Aquilinus, with two others.&mdash;At Chalcedon, the holy 
martyrs Solochanus and his companions, soldiers 
under the emperor Maximian.&mdash;At Alexandria, the 
holy martyrs Adrio, Victor and Basilla.&mdash;At Wurz- 
burg, St. Bruno, bishop and confessor. 



Cfte dEig&teent!) Dap of 

A T Camerino, the holy martyr Venantius, who at 
-" fifteen years of age, with ten others, ended a 
glorious combat by being beheaded under the em- 
peror Decius and the governor Antiochus.&mdash;In 
Egypt, St. Dioscorus, a lector, who was subjected by 
the governor to many various torments, such as the 
tearing off of his nails and the burning of his sides 
with torches; but a light from heaven having pros- 
trated the executioners, the saint finally consum- 
mated his martyrdom by having red-hot metal ap- 
plied to his body.&mdash;At Spoleto, St. Felix, a bishop, 
who obtained the palm of martyrdom under the em- 
peror Maximian.&mdash;In Egypt, St. Potamon, bishop, a 
confessor under Maximian Galerius, and afterwards 
a martyr under the emperor Constantius, and the 
Arian governor Philagrius.&mdash;At Ancyra, in Galatia, 
the martyrs St. Theodotus, and the saintly virgins 
Thecusa, his aunt, Alexandra, Claudia, Faina, Eu- 



MAY. 145 

phrasia, Matrona, and Julitta. They were at first 
taken to a place of debauch, but the power of God 
having preserved them from evil, they had stones tied 
to their necks, and were plunged into a lake. For 
gathering their remains and burying them honor- 
ably, Theodotus was arrested by the governor, and 
after being horribly lacerated, was put to the sword, 
and thus received the crown of martyrdom.&mdash;At 
Upsal, in Sweden, St. Eric, king and martyr.&mdash;At 
Rome, St. Felix, confessor, of the Order of Capuchin 
Minorites, celebrated for his evangelical simplicity 
and charity. He was inscribed on the roll of Saints 
by the Sovereign Pontiff, Clement XI. 



Cfje jftineteemi) Dap of 



birthday of St. Peter of Moroni, who, while 
leading the life of an anchoret, was created Sov- 
ereign Pontiff and called Celestin V. Having abdi- 
cated the pontificate, he led a religious life in soli- 
tude, where, renowned for virtues and miracles, he 
went to God.&mdash;At Rome, the saintly virgin Puden- 
tiana, who, after numberless tribulations, after bury- 
ing with great respect many martyrs, and distribut- 
ing all her goods to the poor for Christ's sake, de- 
parted from this world to go to heaven.&mdash;In the 
same city, St. Pudens, senator, father of the virgin 
just mentioned, who, being clothed with Christ in 

10 



146 MAY. 

baptism by the apostles, preserved unspotted the 
robe of innocence until he received the crown of 
life.&mdash;Also, at Rome, on the Appian road, the birth- 
day of the Saints Calocerus and Parthenius, eunuchs. 
The former was chamberlain to the wife of the em- 
peror Decius, and the latter chief officer in another 
department. For refusing to offer sacrifice to idols, 
they were put to death.&mdash;At Nicomedia, the martyr 
St. Philoterus, son of the proconsul Pacian, who 
after much suffering under the emperor Diocletian, 
received the crown of martyrdom.&mdash;In the same city 
six holy virgins and martyrs. The principal one, 
named Cyriaca, having freely reproved Maximian 
for his impiety, was most severely scourged and lac- 
erated, and then consumed with fire.&mdash;At Canter- 
bury, St. Dunstan, bishop.&mdash;In Bretagne, St. Ives, 
priest and confessor, who, for the love of Christ, 
defended the interests of orphans, widows, and the 
poor. 



C6e Ctoemiett) Dap of 



A T Aquila, in Abruzzo, St. Bernardine of Siena, of 
** the Order of Minorites, who ennobled Italy by 
his preaching and example.&mdash;At Rome, on the Sala- 
rian road, the birthday of St. Basilla, virgin, who 
was of royal race and betrothed to an illustrious 
personage. As she refused to marry him, he accused 
her of being a Christian. The emperor Gallienus 



MAY. 147 

gave orders that she should accept him or die by the 
sword. Answering that she had for her spouse the 
King of kings, she was transpierced with a sword. 
At Mmes, in France, St. Baudelius, martyr. Being 
arrested, but refusing to sacrifice to idols, and re- 
maining immovable in the faith of Christ, notwith- 
standing blows and tortures, he gained the palm of 
martyrdom by a precious death.&mdash;At Edessa, in 
Syria, the holy martyrs Thalalaeus, Asterius, Alex- 
ander, and their companions, who suffered under the 
emperor Numerian.&mdash;In Thebais, St. Aquila, martyr 
to the faith, whose body was torn with iron combs. 
At Bourges, in France, St. Austregisil, bishop and 
confessor.&mdash;At Brescia, St. Anastasius, bishop.&mdash;At 
Pavia, St. Theodore, bishop.&mdash;At Rome, St. Plautilla, 
wife of an ex-consul and mother of the blessed Fla- 
via Domitilla. She was baptized by the apostle St. 
Peter, and after giving the example of all virtues, 
rested in peace. 



Cfte Ctoentp*fim Dap of 

TN Mauritania (Morocco), the birthday of the holy 
martyrs Timothy, Polius, and Eutychius, dea- 
cons, who merited to be crowned together for dis- 
pensing the word of God in that region.&mdash;At Caes- 
area, in Cappadocia, the birthday of the holy martyrs 
Polieuctus, Victorius, and Donatus.&mdash;At Cordova, 



148 MAY. 

St. Secundinus, martyr. The same day, the holy 
martyrs Synesius and Theopompus.&mdash;At Csesarea 
Philippi, the holy martyrs Nicostratus and Anti- 
ochus, tribunes, with other soldiers. The same day 
St. Valens, bishop, who was put to death with three 
boys.&mdash;At Alexandria, the commemoration of the 
holy martyrs Secundus, a priest, and others, whom 
the Arian bishop George caused to be barbarously 
killed during the holy days of Pentecost, under the 
emperor Constantius.&mdash;Also, the saintly bishops and 
priests, who, being banished by the Arians, merited 
to be associated with holy confessors.&mdash;At Nice, in 
France, St. Hospitius, confessor, distinguished by 
the virtue of abstinence and the spirit of prophecy. 



Cfje Ctoentp^econD Dap of 

AT Rome, the holy martyrs Faustinus, Timothy, 
^ and Venustus.&mdash;In Africa, the holy martyrs Cas- 
tus and 2Emilius, who consummated their martyr- 
dom by fire. St. Cyprian says that they were over- 
come in the first combat, but in the second God made 
them victorious, so that, though at first yielding to 
the fire, they became finally stronger than the fire. 
In Corsica, St. Julia, virgin, who won her crown by 
being crucified.&mdash;At Comana, in Pontus, under the 
emperor Maximian and the governor Agrippa, the 
holy martyr Basiliscus, who was forced to wear iron 



MAY. . 149 

shoes pierced with heated nails, and endured many 
other trials. Being at last decapitated and thrown 
into a river, he obtained the glory of martyrdom. 
In Spain, St. Quiteria, virgin and martyr.&mdash;At Ra- 
venna, St. Marcian, bishop and confessor.&mdash;In the 
diocese of Auxerre, the abbot St. Romanus, who min- 
istered to St. Benedict in his cave. Going later to 
France, he built a monastery there, and leaving many 
disciples and imitators of his sanctity, went to rest 
in the Lord.&mdash;At Aquino, St. Fulk, confessor.&mdash;At 
Pistoja, in Tuscany, the blessed&mdash;Attho, of the Val- 
lumbrosan Order.&mdash;At Auxerre, St. Helena, virgin. 
At Cassia, in Umbria, blessed Rita, a widow, and 
nun of the Order of Augustinians, who after being 
disengaged from her earthly marriage, loved only 
Christ, her eternal spouse. 



Cfie CtoentHlnrO Dap of 

A T Langres, in France, the martyrdom of the holy 
^ bishop Desiderius, who visited the king as a sup- 
pliant in behalf of his people who were maltreated 
by the Vandal army. Being forthwith condemned to 
decapitation, he readily presented his neck, and be- 
ing struck with the sword, died for the sheep com- 
mitted to his charge and departed for heaven. With 
him suffered many of his flock, who are buried in the 
same city.&mdash;In Spain, the holy martyrs Epitacius, 



150 MAY. 

bishop, and Basileus.&mdash;In Africa, the holy martyrs 
Quintian, Lucius, and Julian, who merited eternal 
crowns by their sufferings, during the persecution of 
the Vandals.&mdash;In Cappadocia, the commemoration 
of the holy martyrs who died by having their legs 
crushed, in the persecution of Maximian Galerius. 
Also, in Mesopotamia, those martyrs who, at the 
same time, were suspended in the air with their 
heads downward. Being suffocated with smoke, and 
consumed with a slow fire, they consummated their 
martyrdom.&mdash;In the territory of Lyons, St. Desid- 
erius, bishop of Vienne, who was crowned with mar- 
tyrdom by being overwhelmed with stones by order 
of king Theodoric.&mdash;At Synnada, in Phrygia, St. 
Michael, bishop. The same day, St. Mercurialis, 
bishop.&mdash;At Naples, in Campania, St. Euphebius, 
bishop.&mdash;At Norcia, the Saints Eutychius and Flor- 
entius, monks, mentioned by the blessed pope Greg- 
ory.&mdash;At Borne, the birthday of St. John Baptist de 
Rossi, confessor, a man illustrious for his patience 
and his zeal in preaching the Gospel to the poor. 



Cfie Ctoemp*fottrtf) Dap of 

AT Antioch, the birthday of St. Manahen, foster- 
*" brother of Herod the Tetrarch. He was a doctor 
and prophet under the grace of the New Testament, 
and his remains now repose in the city of Antioch. 



MAY. 151 

Also, blessed Joanna, wife of Chuza, Herod's stew- 
ard, mentioned by the evangelist St. Luke.&mdash;At Por- 
to, the birthday of St. Vincent, martyr.&mdash;At Brescia, 
St. Afra, martyr, who suffered under the emperor 
Adrian.&mdash;At Nantes, in Bretagne, in the time of the 
emperor Diocletian, the blessed martyrs Donatian 
and Rogatian, brothers, who, because of their con- 
stancy in the faith, were sent to prison, stretched 
on the rack, and lacerated. Finally, they were trans- 
pierced with a soldier's lance and beheaded.&mdash;In 
Istria, the holy martyrs Zoellus, Servilius, Felix, 
Silvanus, and Diocles. The same day, the holy mar- 
tyrs Meletius, military officer, and two hundred and 
fifty-two of his companions, who achieved their mar- 
tyrdom by various kinds of deaths.&mdash;Also, the holy 
martyrs Susanna, Marciana, and Pallada, wives of 
the soldiers just mentioned, who were put to death 
with their young children.&mdash;At Milan, St. Robustian, 
martyr.&mdash;At Morocco, in Africa, the passion of 
blessed John de Prado, of the Order of the Discalced 
Minorites of the Strict Observance, who, whilst 
preaching the Gospel, was bound, imprisoned and 
scourged; and after enduring with fortitude many 
other torments for Christ, terminated his martyr- 
dom by fire.&mdash;In the monastery of Lerins, St. Vin- 
cent, a priest eminent for learning and sanctity. 
At Bologna, the translation of St. Dominic, confes- 
sor, in the time of pope Gregory IX. 



152 MAY. 



Cfte Ctoemg'fiftj) Dap of 

A T Salerno, the demise of the blessed pope Gregory 
^ VII., a most zealous protector and champion of 
ecclesiastical liberty.&mdash;At Florence, St. Mary Mag- 
dalen, virgin, of the Order of the Carmelites, illus- 
trious by the holiness of her life. Her feast is kept 
on the 27th of May.&mdash;At Borne, on the Nomentan 
road, the birthday of blessed Urban, pope and mar- 
tyr, by whose exhortation and teaching many, among 
whom were Tiburtius and Valerian, received the 
faith of Christ and suffered martyrdom for it. He 
himself endured many afflictions for the Church of 
God, and was crowned with martyrdom by being 
beheaded in the persecution of Alexander Severus. 
At Dorostorum, in Mysia, the birthday of the holy 
martyrs Pasicrates, Valentio, and two others, 
crowned with them.&mdash;At Milan, the holy bishop 
Denis, who for the Catholic faith was, by the Arian 
emperor Constantius, banished to Cappadocia, where 
he yielded his soul to God in a manner almost like 
that of the martyrs. His sacred body was sent to 
the blessed bishop Ambrose, at Milan, by bishop 
Aurelius, with the assistance, it is said, of St. Basil 
the Great.&mdash;At Borne, pope St. Boniface IV., who 
dedicated the Pantheon to the honor of blessed Mary 
of the Martyrs.&mdash;At Florence, the birthday of St. 
Zenobius, bishop of that city, renowned for holiness 
of life and glorious miracles.&mdash;In England, St. Aid 



MAY. 153 

helm, bishop of Sherburn.&mdash;In the territory of 
Troyes, St. Leo, confessor.&mdash;At Assisi, in Umbria, 
the translation of St. Francis, confessor, in the time 
of Pope Gregory IX.&mdash;At Veroli, in Campania, the 
translation of St. Mary, mother of James, whose 
sacred body is rendered illustrious by many miracles. 



Cfte Ctoemg'gfetj) Dap of 

A T Home, St. Philip Neri, founder of the Congre- 
^ gation of the Oratory, celebrated for his virginal 
purity, the gift of prophecy, and miracles.&mdash;Also, at 
Rome, St. Eleutherius, pope and martyr, who con- 
verted many noble Romans to the Christian faith. 
He sent the saints Damian and Fugatius to England, 
who baptized king Lucius with his wife and almost 
all his people.&mdash;In the same city, the holy martyrs 
Simitrius, priest, and twenty-two others, who suf- 
fered under Antoninus Pius.&mdash;At&mdash;Athens, during the 
persecution of Adrian, the birthday of blessed Quad- 
ratus, a disciple of the Apostles, who collected 
through his zealous exertions the faithful dispersed 
by terror, and presented to the emperor an excellent 
apology of the Christian religion, worthy of an apos- 
tle.&mdash;At Vienne, St. Zachary, bishop and martyr, 
who suffered under Trajan.&mdash;In Africa, St. Quadra- 
tus, martyr, on whose festival St. Augustine preached 
a sermon.&mdash;At Todi, the birthday of the holy mar- 



154 MAY. 

tyrs Felicissimus, Heraclius, and Paulinus.&mdash;In the 
territory of Auxerre, the passion of St. Priscus, mar- 
tyr, with a great multitude of Christians.&mdash;At Can- 
terbury, in England, St. Augustine, bishop, who was 
sent thither with others by the blessed pope Gregory 
and preached the Gospel of Christ to the English 
nation. Celebrated for virtues and miracles, he 
went peacefully to his rest in the Lord. 



Cfie Ctoentp^etientj) Dap of 

HPHE demise of the Venerable Bebe, priest, confes- 
* sor and doctor, renowned for sanctity and learn- 
ing. The birthday of St. John, pope and martyr, 
who was called to Ravenna by the Arian king of 
Italy, Theodoric, and after languishing a long time 
in prison for the orthodox faith, terminated his life. 
At Dorostorum, in Mysia, in the time of the em- 
peror Alexander, the martyrdom of blessed Julius, 
a veteran soldier in retirement, who was arrested by 
the officials and presented to the governor Maximus. 
Having in his presence execrated the idols, and con- 
fessed the name of Christ with the utmost constancy, 
he was condemned to capital punishment.&mdash;At Sora, 
in the time of the emperor Aurelian and the procon- 
sul Agathius, St. Restituta, virgin and martyr, who 
overcame in a combat for the faith the violence of 
the demons, the caresses of her family, and the 



MAY. 155 

cruelty of the executioners. Being finally beheaded 
with other Christians, she obtained the honor of 
martyrdom.&mdash;In the territory of Arras, St. Ranulph, 
martyr.&mdash;At Orange, in France, St. Eutropius, a 
bishop, illustrious for virtues and miracles. 



Dap of 

A T Canterbury, in England, St. Augustine, bishop, 
" mentioned on the 26th of this month.&mdash;In Sar- 
dinia, the holy martyrs ^Emilius, Felix, Priam, and 
Lucian, who were crowned after having combated 
for Chirst.&mdash;At Chartres, in France, under the em- 
peror Domitian, St. Caraunus, martyr, who was be- 
headed, and thus acquired the glory of martyrdom. 
At Corinth, St. Helconides, martyr, who was first 
subjected to torments in the reign of the emperor 
Gordian, under the governor Perennius, and then 
again tortured under his successor Justin. But be- 
ing liberated by an angel, she had her breasts cut 
off, was exposed to wild beasts and to fire, and at 
length terminated her martyrdom by decapitation. 
Also, the martyrdom of the Saints Crescens, Diosco- 
rides, Paul, and Helladius.&mdash;At Thecua, in Palestine, 
the saintly monks who became martyrs by being 
killed by the Saracens, in the time of Theodosius 
the Younger. Their sacred remains were gathered 
by the inhabitants of the place and preserved with 



156 MAY. 

the greatest veneration.&mdash;At Paris, St. Germanus, 
bishop and confessor, whose celebrity for holiness, 
merit, and miracles, has been transmitted to us by 
the writings of bishop Fortunatus.&mdash;At Milan, St. 
Senator, bishop, very renowned for virtues and 
learning.&mdash;At Urgel, in Spain, St. Justus, bishop. 
At Florence, St. Podius, bishop and confessor. 



C6e Ctoentp*nfnt& Dag of 

FT! HE feast of St. Mary Magdalen, Carmelite nun, 
* whose birthday is on the 25th of this month. 
At Rome, on the Aurelian road, the birthday of St. 
Restitutus, martyr.&mdash;At Iconium, a town of Isauria, 
in the time of the emperor Aurelian, the martyrdom 
of the Saints Conon and his son, a child twelve years 
of age, who were laid on a grate over burning coals 
sprinkled with oil, were racked and exposed to the 
fire; and finally, having their hands crushed with a 
mallet, they breathed their last. The same day, in 
the time of the emperor Honorius, the birthday of 
the holy martyrs Sisinius, Martyrius, and Alexan- 
der, who were persecuted by the Gentiles of Anaunia, 
and obtained the crown of martyrdom, as is related 
by Paulinus in the Life of St. Ambrose.&mdash;At Csesarea 
Philippi, the holy martyrs Theodosia, mother of the 
martyr St. Procopius, and twelve other noble ma- 
trons, who ended their life by decapitation, in the 



MAY. 157 

persecution of Diocletian.&mdash;In Umbria, the passion 
of fifteen hundred and twenty-five holy martyrs. 
At Treves, blessed Maximus, bishop and confessor, 
who received with honor the patriarch St.&mdash;Athana- 
sius, banished by the Arian persecutors.&mdash;At Verona, 
St. Maximus, bishop.&mdash;At Arcanum, in Campania, 
St. Eleutherius, confessor. 



Cfte Cfttrtietft Dap of 

A T Rome, on the Aurelian road, the birthday of St. 
^ Felix, pope and martyr, who was crowned with 
martyrdom under the emperor Aurelian.&mdash;At Torres, 
in Sardinia, the holy martyrs Gabinus and Crispu- 
lus.&mdash;At Antioch, the Saints Sycus and Palatinus, 
who endured many torments for the name of Christ. 
At Ravenna, St. Exuperantius, bishop and confes- 
sor.&mdash;At Pavia, St. Anastasius, bishop.&mdash;At Csesa- 
rea, in Cappadocia, the Saints Basil and his wife 
Emmelia, parents of St. Basil the Great, who lived 
in exile in the fastnesses of Pontus during the reign 
of Galerius Maximian, and after the persecution 
rested in peace, leaving their children the heirs of 
their virtues.&mdash;At Seville, in Spain, St. Ferdinand 
III., King of Castile and Leon, surnamed the Saint, 
on account of his eminent virtues, and celebrated 
for his zeal in propagating the faith. Having con- 



158 MAY. 

quered the Moors, he quitted his kingdom on earth 
to pass happily to that of heaven. 



Cfie fnrtp*first Dap of 

AT Brescia, St. Angela Merici, virgin, foundress of 
-^ the nuns of St. Ursula. She is mentioned on the 
27th of January.&mdash;At Borne, St. Petronilla, virgin, 
daughter of the blessed apostle Peter, who refused to 
marry the nobleman Flaccus. Being granted three 
days to deliberate, she gave herself up to fasting 
and prayer, and on the third day, after having re- 
ceived the sacrament of the body of Christ, she 
yielded up her soul.&mdash;At Aquileia, the holy martyrs 
Cantius, Cantian, and Cantianilla. For their at- 
tachment to the Christian faith, they were con- 
demned to capital punishment with their tutor Pro- 
tus, in the time of the emperors Diocletian and 
Maximian.&mdash;At Torres, in Sardinia, St. Crescentian, 
martyr.&mdash;At Comana, in Pontus, in the time of the 
emperor Antoninus, St. Hermias, a soldier. Being 
miraculously delivered from many horrible tor- 
ments, he converted his executioner to Christ, and 
made him partaker of the crown which he himself 
obtained first by having his head struck off with the 
sword.&mdash;At Verona, St. Lupicinus, bishop.&mdash;At 
Rome, St. Paschasius, deacon and confessor, who is 
mentioned by the blessed pope Gregory. 




JUNE. 

C6e Jftt0t Dap of 3fime, 

T ROME, St. Juventius, martyr.&mdash;At Csesa- 
rea, in Palestine, blessed Pamphilus, priest 
and martyr, a man of remarkable sanctity 
and learning, and great charity to the poor. 
In the persecution of Galerius Maximian, he was 
tortured for the faith of Christ, under the governor 
Urbanus, and thrown into prison ; then, being again 
subjected to torments under Firmilian, he consum- 
mated his martyrdom with others. With them suf- 
fered also Valens, deacon, and Paul, and nine others, 
whose commemoration occurs on other days.&mdash;At 
Autun, the Saints Reverian, bishop, and Paul, priest, 
with ten others, who were crowned with martyrdom 
under the emperor Aurelian.&mdash;In Cappadocia, in 
the time of the emperor Alexander and the prefect 
Simplicius, the holy martyr Thespesius, who, after 
undergoing many torments, was beheaded.&mdash;In 
Egypt, under the emperor Diocletian, the holy mar- 
tyrs Ischyrion, military officer, and five other sol- 
diers, who were put to death in different manners 



160 JUNE. 

for the faith of Christ.&mdash;Also, St. Firmus, martyr, 
who was scourged most severely, struck with stones, 
and finally decapitated during the persecution of 
Maximian.&mdash;At Perugia, the holy martyrs Felinus 
and Gratinian, soldiers under Decius, who were 
variously tortured, and thus by a glorious death 
won the palm of martyrdom.&mdash;At Bologna, St. Proc- 
ulus, martyr, who suffered under the emperor Max- 
imian.&mdash;At Amelia, in the reign of Diocletian, St. 
Secundus, martyr, who consummated his martyrdom 
by being thrown into the Tiber.&mdash;At Citta-di-Cas- 
tello, in Umbria, St. Crescentian, a Eoman soldier, 
crowned with martyrdom under the same emperor. 
In Umbria, St. Fortunatus, a priest renowned for 
virtues and miracles.&mdash;In the monastery of Lerins, 
the abbot St. Caprasius.&mdash;At Treves, St. Simeon, 
monk, who was added to the number of the Saints 
by pope Benedict IX.&mdash;At Burgos, in Spain, in the 
monastery of Onia, St. Eneco, Benedictine abbot, 
illustrious by his sanctity and miracles. 



Cfie SeconD Dap of 3fune, 

A T Rome, the birthday of the holy martyr Marcel- 
linus, priest, and Peter, exorcist, who instructed 
in the faith many persons detained in prison. Un- 
der Diocletian, they were loaded with chains, and, 
after enduring many torments, were beheaded by the 



JUNE. 161 

judge Serenus, in a place which was then called the 
Black Forest, but which was in their honor after- 
wards known as the White Forest. Their bodies 
were buried in a crypt near St. Tiburtius, and pope 
St. Damasus composed for their tomb an epitaph in 
verse.&mdash;In Campania, during the reign of Decius, St. 
Erasmus, bishop and martyr, who was first scourged 
with leaded whips and then severely beaten with 
rods; he had also rosin, brimstone, lead, pitch, wax, 
and oil poured over him, without receiving any in- 
jury. Afterwards, under Maximian, he was again 
subjected to various most horrible tortures at Mola, 
but was still preserved from death by the power of 
God for the strengthening of others in the faith. 
Finally, celebrated for his sufferings, and called by 
God, he closed his life by a peaceful and holy end. 
His body was afterwards transferred to Gaeta.&mdash;At 
Lyons, many holy martyrs (Photinus, bishop, Sanc- 
tus, deacon, Vetius, Epagathus, Maturus, Ponticus, 
Biblis,&mdash;Attalus, Alexander and Blandina, with many 
others), whose many valiant combats, in the time 
of Marcus Aurelius Antoninus and Lucius Verus, 
are recorded in a letter from the church at Lyons to 
the churches of Asia and Phrygia. St. Blandina, 
one of these martyrs, though weaker on account of 
her sex and frame, and of her lower condition in 
life, encountered longer and more terrible trials. 
But remaining unshaken, she was put to the sword, 
and followed those whom she had exhorted to win 
the palm of martyrdom.&mdash;At Rome, St. Eugenius, 

11 



162 JUNE. 

pope and confessor.&mdash;At Tarni, in Terra-di-Bari, St. 
Nicholas Peregrinus, confessor, whose miracles were 
related in the Roman Council, under Urban II. 



Cf)e Ci)itD Dap of 3fime, 

AT Arezzo, in Tuscany, during the persecution of 
" Decius, under the governor Tiburtius, the holy 
martyrs Pergentinus and Laurentinus, brothers, 
who, while yet children, were put to the sword, after 
they had endured cruel torments and performed 
many miracles.&mdash;At Constantinople, the holy mar- 
tyrs Lucillian and four boys, Claudius, Hypatius, 
Paul, and Denis. Lucillian, formerly a pagan priest, 
but now a Christian, was cast into a furnace with 
them, after undergoing many torments; but the 
flames being extinguished by the rain, all escaped 
uninjured. Finally, under the governor Silvanus, 
they terminated their career; Lucillian, by cruci- 
fixion, the children, by decapitation.&mdash;In the same 
city, St. Paula, virgin and martyr, who was arrested 
whilst gathering the blood of the martyrs just men- 
tioned, beaten with rods, and thrown into the fire, 
from which she was delivered. Finally, when St. 
Lucillian had been crucified, she was decapitated. 
At Cordova, in Spain, blessed Isaac, a monk, who 
died by the sword for the faith of Christ.&mdash;At Carth- 
age, St. Caecilius, the priest who converted St. Cyp- 



JUNE. 163 

rian to the faith of Christ.&mdash;In the diocese of Or- 
leans, St. Lifard, priest and confessor.&mdash;At Lucca, 
in Tuscany, St. Davinus, confessor.&mdash;At Paris, St. 
Clo tilde, queen, by whose prayers her husband, king 
Clovis, was converted to the faith of Christ.&mdash;At 
Anagni, St. Oliva, virgin. 



Cfte Jfourtft Dap of 3[itne, 

AT Agnone, in Abruzzo, St. Francis, of the noble 
"" Neapolitan family of the Caracciolos, confessor, 
and founder of the Congregation of the Minor Clerks 
Regular, who burned with an admirable love of God 
and his neighbor, and a most ardent desire to propa- 
gate devotion to the most holy Eucharist. His body 
is religiously honored at Naples. He was inscribed 
on the catalogue of the saints by Pius VII.&mdash;At 
Rome, the holy martyrs Aretius and Dacian.&mdash;At 
Sisseck, in Illyria, in the time of the governor Ga- 
lerius, St. Quirinus, bishop. Prudentius relates that 
for the faith of Christ he was precipitated into a 
river, with a milltsone tied to his neck; but as the 
stone floated on the water, he exhorted for a long 
time the Christians who were present not to be terri- 
fied by his punishment, nor to waver in the faith, 
and then God heard his prayers to be drowned, that 
he might attain to the glory of martyrdom.&mdash;At 
Brescia, St. Clateus, bishop and martyr, under the 



164 JUNE. 

emperor Nero.&mdash;In Pannonia, the holy martyrs Ru- 
tilus and his companions.&mdash;At Arras, St. Saturnina, 
virgin and martyr.&mdash;At Tivoli, St. Quirinus, martyr. 
At Constantinople, St. Metrophanes, bishop and 
renowned confessor.&mdash;At Milevis, in Numidia, St. 
Optatus, bishop, celebrated for learning and holi- 
ness.&mdash;At Verona, St. Alexander, bishop. 



Cfie JfiftJ) Dap of 3[ime, 

. BONIFACE, bishop of Mayence, who came 
from England to Rome, and was sent by Gregory 
II. to Germany to preach the faith of Christ to the 
people of that country. Having converted large 
multitudes to the Christian religion, especially in 
Friesland, he merited the title of Apostle of the 
Germans. Being finally put to the sword by the 
furious Gentiles, he consummated his martyrdom 
with Eobanus and some other servants of God.&mdash;In 
Egypt, the birthday of the holy martyrs Marcian, 
Nicanor, Apollonius, and others, who suffered a glo- 
rious martyrdom in the persecution of Galerius 
Maximian.&mdash;At Perugia, the holy martyrs Floren- 
tius, Julian, Cyriacus, Marcellinus, and Faustinus, 
who were beheaded in the persecution of Decius. 
At Caesarea, in Palestine, the martyrdom of the 
Saints Zenaides, Cyria, Valeria, and Marcia, who 
through many torments attained to martyrdom re- 



JUNE. 165 

joicing.&mdash;At Tyre, St. Dorotheus, a priest, who suf- 
fered much under Diocletian, but survived until the 
reign of Julian, under whom his venerable age was 
crowned with martyrdom, he being then one hundred 
and seven years old.&mdash;At Cordova, in Spain, blessed 
Sancius, a youth, who, though brought up in the 
royal court, did not hesitate to undergo martyrdom 
for the faith of Christ, during the persecution of the 
Arabs. 



Cfie Stetf) Dap of 3[une 

AT. NORBERT, bishop of Magdeburg, founder of 
*"* the Premonstratensian Order.&mdash;At Csesarea, in 
Palestine, the birthday of blessed Philip, one of the 
first seven deacons. Being renowned for miracles 
and prodigies, he converted Samaria to the faith of 
Christ, baptized the eunuch of Candaces, queen of 
^Ethiopia, and finally rested in peace at Ctesarea. 
Near him are buried three of his daughters, virgins 
and prophetesses. His fourth daughter died at 
Ephesus, filled with the Holy Ghost.&mdash;At Rome, St. 
Artemius, with his wife Candida and his daughter 
Paulina. Artemius became a believer through the 
preaching and miarcles of St. Peter the Exorcist, 
who was baptized with all his house by the priest 
St. Marcellinus. By order of the judge Serenus, he 
was scourged with whips strung with leaden balls, 
and struck with the sword. His wife and daughter 



166 JUNE. 

were forced into a pit and overwhelmed with stones 
and earth.&mdash;At Tarsus, in Cilicia, in the time of 
Diocletian and Maximian, and the governor Sim- 
plicius, twenty holy martyrs who, by various tor- 
ments, glorified God in their bodies.&mdash;At Noyon, in 
France, the holy martyrs Amatius, Alexander, and 
their companions.&mdash;At Fiesoli, in Tuscany, St. Alex- 
ander, bishop and martyr.&mdash;At Milan, the demise of 
St. Eustorgius II., bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Ve- 
rona, St. John, bishop.&mdash;At Besancon, in France, 
St. Claude, bishop. 



Cfte Setiemj) Dap of 3[une. 

AT Constantinople, the birthday of St. Paul, bishop 
-^ of that city. For the Catholic faith, he was 
often expelled from his see by the Arians, and re- 
stored to it by the Roman Pontiff, St. Julius. Fin- 
ally, the Arian emperor Constantius banished him 
to Cucusum, a small town of Cappadocia, where, by 
the machinations of the Arians, he was barbarously 
strangled, and thus departed for the heavenly king- 
dom. His body was conveyed to Constantinople 
with the greatest honor, in the reign of emperor 
Theodosius.&mdash;In Egypt, St. Licarion, martyr, who 
was lacerated, scourged with heated iron rods, and, 
after other horrible torments, was crowned with 
martyrdom by a stroke from the sword.&mdash;At Cor- 



JUNE. 167 

dova, the holy martyrs Peter, priest, Wallabonsus, 
deacon, Sabinian, Wistremundus, Habentius, and 
Jeremias, monks.&mdash;In England, the abbot St. Rob- 
ert, of the Order of Citeaux. 



Cfte OEigfctj) Dap of 3fune* 

A T Aix, in France, St. Maximin, first bishop of that 
" city, who is said to have been a disciple of our 
Lord. The same day, St. Calliopa, martyr, who, for 
the faith of Christ, had her breasts cut off, her flesh 
burned, was rolled on broken pottery, and being 
lastly decapitated, received the palm of martyrdom. 
At York, in England, St. William, archbishop and 
confessor, who, among other miracles wrought at his 
tomb, raised three persons from the dead. He 
was placed in the calendar of the Saints by Hon- 
orius III.&mdash;At Soissons, in France, the birthday of 
St. Medard, bishop of Noyon, whose life and precious 
death are illustrated by glorious miracles.&mdash;At 
Rouen, St. Gildard, bishop, brother of St. Medard. 
They were born on the same day, consecrated bish- 
ops at the same time, and being taken away from 
this life also on the same day, they entered heaven 
together.&mdash;At Sens, St. Heraclius, bishop.&mdash;At Metz, 
St. Clodulphus, bishop.&mdash;In the March of Ancona, 
St. Severin, bishop of Stepternpeda.&mdash;In Sardinia, 
St. Sallustian, confessor.&mdash;At Camerino, St. Victor- 
inus, confessor. 



168 JUNE. 



I3mtj) Dap of 3fime, 

A T Rome, on Mount Cselius, the birthday of the holy 
" martyrs Primus and Felician, under the empe- 
rors Diocletian and Maximian. These glorious mar- 
tyrs lived long in the service of the Lord, and en- 
dured sometimes together, sometimes separately, 
various cruel torments. They were finally beheaded 
by Promotus, governor of Nomentum, and thus hap- 
pily ended their combat.&mdash;At Agen, in France, St. 
Vincent, deacon and martyr.&mdash;At Antioch, St. Pe- 
lagia, virgin and martyr, whose eulogy has been 
made by St. Ambrose and St. John Chrysostom.&mdash;At 
Syracuse, the bishop St. Maximian, who is frequently 
mentioned by pope St. Gregory.&mdash;At Andria, in Ter- 
ra-di-Bari, St. Richard, first bishop of that city, who 
is renowned for miracles.&mdash;In Scotland, St. Colum- 
ba, priest and confessor.&mdash;At Edessa, in Syria, St. 
Julian, a monk, whose memorable deeds have been 
related by the deacon St. Ephrem. 



Cem& Dap of June* 

N Scotland, St. Margaret, queen, celebrated for her 

love of the poor and of voluntary poverty.&mdash;At 

Rome, on the Salarian road, the martyrdom of 

blessed Getulius, a noble and very learned man, and 



JUNE. 169 

of his companions Caerealis, Ainantius, and Primi- 
tivus. By order of the emperor Adrian, they were 
arrested by the ex-consul Licinius, scourged, thrown 
into prison, and then delivered to the flames. But 
as the fire did not injure them, their heads were 
crushed with clubs, and they thus terminated their 
martyrdom. Their bodies were taken up by Sympho- 
rosa, wife of blessed Getulius, and reverently inter- 
red in a sandpit on her own estate.&mdash;Also, at Rome, 
on the Aurelian way, the birthday of the Saints Ba- 
silides, Tripos, Mandales, and twenty other martyrs, 
under the emperor Aurelian, and Plato, governor of 
the city.&mdash;At Nicomedia, St. Zachary, martyr.&mdash;At 
Prusias, in Bithynia, St. Timothy, bishop and mar- 
tyr, under Julian the Apostate.&mdash;In Spain, the holy 
martyrs Crispulus and Restitutus.&mdash;In Africa, the 
holy martyrs Aresius, Rogatus, and fifteen others. 
At Cologne, St. Maurinus, abbot and martyr.&mdash;At 
Petra, in Arabia, St. Asterius, a bishop, who suffered 
much from the Ariahs for the Catholic faith. By 
the emperor Constantius he was banished to Africa, 
where he died a glorious confessor.&mdash;At Naples, in 
Campania, St. Maximus, bishop and martyr. For 
having vigorously defended the Nicene Creed, he was 
sent by the same emperor Constantius into exile, 
where he died worn out by his trials.&mdash;At Auxerre, 
St. Censurius, bishop. 



170 JUNE. 



Cfte (Elebentft Dap of 3fune* 

ITIHE birthday of the apostle St. Barnabas, born in 
- Cyprus. By the disciples, he was ordained apos- 
tle of the Gentiles with St. Paul, and with him trav- 
ersed many regions, fulfilling his commission to 
preach the Gospel.&mdash;At length he went to Cyprus, 
where he ennobled his apostolate by a glorious mar- 
tyrdom. Through his own revelation his body was 
found, in the time of the emperor Zeno, together 
with a copy of St. Matthew's gospel copied with his 
own hand.&mdash;At Aquileia, the martyrdom of the 
saints Feilx and Fortunatus, brothers.&mdash;In the per- 
secution of Diocletian and Maximian, they were 
racked, and had flaming torches held against their 
sides. These being extinguished by the power of 
God, boiling oil was poured over them, and as they 
persevered in confessing Christ, they were decapi- 
tated.&mdash;At Bologna, St. Parisius, confessor, a monk 
of the Order of Camaldoli.&mdash;At Rome, the transla- 
tion of St. Gregory Nazianzen, whose sacerd body 
after having been brought from Constantinople to 
Rome, and kept a long time in the church of the 
Mother of God, was, by the Sovereign Pontiff, Greg- 
ory XIII., transferred with great solemnity to a 
chapel of the basilica of St. Peter, most sumptu- 
ously decorated by his Holiness, and the next day 
placed with due honor beneath the altar. 



JUNE. 171 



Cfte Ctoelftft Dag of 3[une* 

A T Salamanca, in Spain, St. John of St. Facundus, 
" confessor, of the Order of Augustinians, re- 
nowned for his zeal for the faith, for holiness of life, 
and miracles.&mdash;At Home, on the Aurelian road, dur- 
ing the persecution of Deems and under the prefect 
Aurelius, the birthday of the holy martyrs Basilides, 
Cyrinus, Nabor, and Nazarius, soldiers, who were 
cast into prison for the confession of the Christian 
name, scourged with scorpions, and finally decapi- 
tated.&mdash;At Niaea, in Bithynia, St. Antonina, martyr, 
who was scourged by order of the governor Priscil- 
lian during the same persecution, then racked, lac- 
erated, exposed to the fire, and finally put to the 
sword.&mdash;In Thrace, St. Olympius, a bishop, who was 
expelled from his see by the Arians, and died a con- 
fessor.&mdash;At Rome, in the Vatican basilica, the pope 
St. Leo III., to whom God miraculously restored his 
eyes and his tongue after they had been torn out 
by impious men.&mdash;In Cilicia, the bishop St. Am- 
phion, a celebrated confessor of the time of Galerius 
Maximian.&mdash;In Egypt, St. Onuphrius, an anchoret, 
who for sixty years led a religious life in the desert, 
and renowned for great virtues and merits, departed 
for heaven. His admirable deeds were recorded by 
the abbot Paphnutius. 



172 JUNE. 



Cfie Cfiitteentfi Dap of 3fune. 

A T Padua, St. Anthony, a native of Portugal, con- 
" fessor of the Order of Minorites, illustrious for 
the sanctity of his life, his miracles, and his preach- 
ing.&mdash;At Eome, on the Ardeatine road, the birthday 
of St. Felicula, virgin and martyr, who was delivered 
to the judge for refusing to marry Flaccus and to 
sacrifice to idols. As she persevered in the confes- 
sion of Christ, he confined her in a dark dungeon 
without food, and afterwards caused her to be 
racked until she expired. She was then cast into a 
sewer; but St. Niomedes buried her on the road 
just mentioned.&mdash;In Africa, the holy martyrs Fortu- 
natus and Lucian.&mdash;At Byblos, in Palestine, St. 
Aquilina, virgin and martyr, at the age of twelve 
years, under the emperor Diocletian and the judge 
Volusian. For the confession of the faith she was 
buffeted, scourged, pierced with red-hot bodkins, and 
being struck with the sword, consecrated her virgin- 
ity by martyrdom.&mdash;In Abruzzo, St. Peregrinus, 
bishop and martyr. For the Catholic faith he was 
thrown into the river Pescara by the Lombards.&mdash;At 
Cordova, in the persecution of the Arabs, St. Fan- 
dila, a priest and monk, who underwent martyrdom 
by decapitation for the faith of Christ.&mdash;In Cyprus, 
St. Triphyllius, bishop. 



JUNE. 173 



Cfie jFottrteemft Dap of 3[ime, 

T Caesarea, in Cappadocia, the consecration of St. 
Basil, bishop and doctor of the Church, who was 
eminent for learning and wisdom in the time of the 
emperor Valens. Being adorned with every virtue, 
he was a great light in the Church, and defended her 
with admirable constancy against the Arians and 
Macedonians.&mdash;At Samaria, in Palestine, the holy 
prophet Eliseus, whose grave, says St. Jerome, makes 
the demons tremble. With him rests also the 
prophet Abdias.&mdash;At Syracuse, St. Marcian, bishop, 
who was made bishop by blessed Peter, and killed by 
the Jews after he had preached the Gospel.&mdash;At Sois- 
sons, the holy martyrs Valerius and Rufinus, who, 
after enduring many torments, were condemned to 
be beheaded by the governor Eictiovarus, in the per- 
secution of Diocletian.&mdash;At Cordova, the holy mar- 
tyrs Anastasius, priest, Felix, monk, and Digna, 
virgin.&mdash;At Constantinople, St. Methodius, bishop. 
At Vienne, St. ./Etherius, bishop.&mdash;At Rhodez, St. 
Quinctian, bishop. 



Cfte Jfifteemft Dap of June* 

TN Basilicata, near the river Silaro, the birthday 
, , of the holy martyrs Vitus, Modestus, and Cres- 
centia, who were brought thither from Sicily, in the 



174 JUNE. 

reign of Diocletian, and after being plunged into a 
vessel of melted lead, after being exposed to the 
beasts, and on the pillory, from which torments they 
escaped uninjured through the power of God, they 
ended their religious combats.&mdash;At Dorostorum, in 
Mysia, St. Hesychius, a soldier, who was arrested 
with blessed Julius, and after him crowned with 
martyrdom, under the governor Maximus.&mdash;At Cor- 
dova, in Spain, St. Benildes, martyr.&mdash;At Zephirium, 
in Cilicia, St. Dulas, martyr, who, under the gov- 
ernor Maximus, was, for the name of Christ, 
scourged, laid on the gridiron, scalded with boiling 
oil, and after enduring other trials, received for his 
victory the palm of martyrdom.&mdash;At Palmyra, in 
Syria, the holy martyrs Libya and Leonides, sisters, 
and Eutropia, a girl of twelve years, who won the 
crown of martyrdom by various torments.&mdash;At Va- 
lenciennes, the decease of St. Landelin, abbot.&mdash;At 
Clermont, in Auvergne, St. Abraham, confessor, 
illustrious by his holiness and miracles.&mdash;In Switz- 
erland, on Mount Jou, St. Bernard of Menthon, con- 
fessor.&mdash;At Pibrac, in the diocese of Toulouse, St. 
Germana Cousin, virgin. After a life of poverty, 
humility, and patient suffering amidst many trials 
in the care of her flocks, she went to her heavenly 
spouse, and became renowned for numerous miracles 
after her death. Pope Pius IX. placed her in the 
number of holy virgins. 



JUNE. 175 



C6e Sfcteemft Dag of 3fune 

A T Besancon, in France, the holy martyrs Ferreol, 
** priest, and Ferrution, deacon, who were sent by 
the blessed bishop Irenseus to preach the word of 
God, and after being exposed to various torments 
under the judge Claudius, were put to the sword. 
At Tarsus, in Cilicia, in the reign of the emperor 
Diocletian, the holy martyrs Q.uiricus, and Julitta, 
his mother. Quiricus, a child of three years, seeing 
his mother cruelly scourged in the presence of the 
governor Alexander, and crying bitterly, was killed 
by being dashed against the steps of the tribunal. 
Julitta, after being subjected to severe stripes and 
grievous torments, closed the career of her martyr- 
dom by decapitation.&mdash;At Mayence, the passion of 
the Saints Aurens, and Justina, his sister, and other 
martyrs, who, being at Mass in the church, were mas 
sacred by the Huns then devastating Germany.&mdash;At 
Amathonte, in Cyprus, St. Tychon, a bishop in the 
time of Theodosius the Younger.&mdash;At Lyons, the 
demise of blessed Aurelian, bishop of Aries.&mdash;At 
Nantes, in Brittany, St. Similian, bishop and con- 
fessor.&mdash;At Meissen, in Germany, St. Benno, bishop. 
In the village of La Louvesc, formerly of the dio- 
cese of Vienne in Dauphiny, the decease of St. John 
Francis Regis, confessor, of the Society of Jesus, 
distinguished by his zeal for the salvation of souls, 



176 JUNE. 

and by his patience. He was placed on the list of 
Saints by Clement XII.&mdash;In Brabant, St. Lutgard, 
virgin. 



Cfte Setoenteentft Dag of 3[une* 

A T Home, during the persecution of Diocletian, the 
** birthday of two hundred and sixty-two holy 
martyrs, who were put to death for the faith of 
Christ, and buried on the old Salarian road, at the 
foot of Cucumer hill.&mdash;At Terracina, St. Montanus, 
a soldier, who received the crown of martyrdom after 
suffering many torments, in the time of the emperor 
Adrian and the ex-consul Leontius.&mdash;At Venafro, 
the holy martyrs Meander and Marcian, who were 
beheaded in the persecution of Maximian.&mdash;At Chal- 
cedon, the holy martyrs Manuel, Sabel, and Isrnael, 
whom the king of Persia sent as ambassadors to 
Julian the Apostate to treat of peace. Having firmly 
refused to worship idols, as they had been command- 
ed by the emperor, they were put to the sword.&mdash;At 
Apollonia, in Macedonia, the holy martyrs Isaurus, 
deacon,&mdash;Innocent, Felix, Jeremias, and Peregrinus, 
natives of&mdash;Athens, who were tortured in different 
manners by the tribune Tripontius, and finally de- 
capitated.&mdash;At Amelia, in Umbria, the bishop St. 
Himerius, whose body was translated to Cremona. 
In the territory of Bourges, St. Gundulphus, bishop. 
At Orleans, St. Avitus, priest and confessor.&mdash;In 



JUNE. 177 

Phrygia, St. Hypatius, confessor.&mdash;Also, St. Bessa- 
rion, anchorite.&mdash;At Pisa, in Tuscany, St. Rainerius, 
confessor. 



Cfie (ZEtgfiteentf) Dap of 3fune, 

A T Rome, on the Ardeatine road, in the persecution 
" of Diocletian, the birthday of the saintly brothers 
Marcus and Marcellian, martyrs, who were arrested 
by the judge Fabian, tied to a stake, and had sharp 
nails driven into their feet. As they ceased not to 
praise the name of Christ, they were pierced through 
the sides with lances, and thus went to the kingdom 
of heaven with the glory of martyrdom.&mdash;At Malaga, 
in Spain, the holy martyrs Cyriacus, and the virgin 
Paula, who w'ere overwhelmed with stones, and 
yielded up their souls to God.&mdash;At Tripoli, in Phoe- 
nicia, in the time of the governor Adrian, St. Leon- 
tius, a soldier, who, through bitter torments, at- 
tained to the crown of martyrdom, together with 
the tribune Hypatius and Theodulus, whom he had 
converted to Christ. The same day, St. AEtherius, 
martyr, in the persecution of Diocletian. After en- 
during fire and other torments, he was put to death 
with the sword.&mdash;At Alexandria, the passion of St. 
Marina, virgin.&mdash;At Bordeaux, St. Amandus, bishop 
and confessor.&mdash;At Sacca, in Sicily, St. Calogerus, 
hermit, whose holiness is principally manifested by 
the deliverance of possessed persons.&mdash;At Schongau, 
12 



178 JUNE. 

St. Elizabeth, virgin, celebrated for her observance 
of monastic discipline. 



Cfie JSineteent!) Dag of 3fune, 

A T Florence, St. Juliana Falconieri, virgin, foun- 
** dress of the Sisters of the Order of the Servants 
of the Blessed Virgin Mary, who was placed among 
the holy virgins by the Sovereign Pontiff, Clement 
XII.&mdash;At Milan, the holy martyrs Gervasius and 
Protasius, brothers. The former, by order of the 
judge Astasius, was so long scourged with leaded 
whips, that he expired. The latter, after being 
scourged with rods, was beheaded. Through divine 
revelation their bodies were found by St. Ambrose. 
They were partly covered with blood, and as free 
from corruption as if they had been put to death 
that very day. When the translation took place, a 
blind man recovered his sight by touching their 
relics, and many persons possessed by demons were 
delivered.&mdash;At Ravenna, St. Ursicinus, martyr, who 
remained firm through many torments in the confes- 
sion of the Lord, and consummated his martyrdom 
by capital punishment, under the judge Paulinus. 
At Sozopolis, under the governor Domitian, during 
the persecution of Trajan, St. Zosimus, martyr, who 
suffered bitter tortures, was beheaded, and thus tri- 
umphantly went to heaven.&mdash;At Arezzo, in Tuscany, 



JUNE. 179 

the holy martyrs Gaudentius, bishop, and Culmatius, 
deacon, who were murdered by the furious Gentiles, 
during the reign of Valentinian. The same day, St. 
Boniface, martyr, a disciple of blessed Romuald, 
who was sent by the Roman Pontiff to preach the 
Gospel in Eussia. Having passed through fire unin- 
jured, and baptized the king and his people, he was 
killed by the enraged brother of the king, and thus 
gained the palm of martyrdom which he ardently 
desired.&mdash;At Ravenna, St. Rornuald, anchoret, foun- 
der of the monks of Carnaldoli, who restored and 
greatly extended monastic discipline, which was 
much relaxed in Italy. He is also mentioned on the 
7th of February. 



Cfte Ctoentietft Dap of 3fune 

fTIHE birthday of St. Silverius, pope and martyr. 
For refusing to reinstate the heretical bishop 
Anthimus, deposed by his predecessor Agapitus, he 
was banished to the isle of Pontia, by Belisarius, at 
the instigation of the wicked empress Theodora, and, 
consumed by many tribulations for the Catholic 
faith, he expired.&mdash;At Rome, the demise of St. No- 
vatus, son of the blessed senator Pudens, and brother 
of the saintly priest Timothy, and of the holy vir- 
gins of Christ Pudentiana and Praxedes, who were 
instructed in the faith by the Apostles. Their house 



180 JUNE. 

was converted into a church, and bore the title of 
Pastor.&mdash;At Tomis, in Pontus, the holy martyrs 
Paul and Cyriacus.&mdash;At Petra, in Palestine, St. Ma- 
carius, a bishop who suffered much from the Arians, 
and was banished to Africa, where he rested in the 
Lord.&mdash;At Seville, in Spain, the holy virgin Floren- 
tina, sister of the holy bishops Leander and Isidore. 



Cfie Ctoemp*ffr0t Dap of 3fune, 

AT Rome, St. Aloysius Gonzaga, of the Society of 
Jesus, most renowned for his contempt of the 
princely dignity, and the innocence of his life. 
Also, at Rome, St. Demetria, virgin, who was 
crowned with martyrdom under Julian the Apostate. 
At Syracuse, in Sicily, the birthday of the holy 
martyrs Rufinus and Martia.&mdash;In Africa, the holy 
martyrs Cyriacus and Apollinaris.&mdash;At Mayence, 
St. Alban, martyr, who was made worthy of the 
crown of life, after long labors and severe combats. 
The same day, St. Eusebius, bishop of Samosata, 
who, in the time of the Arian emperor Constantius, 
disguised himself under a military dress and visited 
the churches of God, to confirm them in the faith. 
By Valens he was banished into Thrace, but when 
peace was restored to the Church in the reign of 
Theodosius, he was recalled. As he again visited 
the churches, an Arian woman struck him with a 



JUNE. 181 

tile, which fractured his skull and made him a mar- 
tyr.&mdash;At Iconium, in Lycaonia, St. Terentius, bishop 
and martyr.&mdash;At Pavia, St. Urciscenus, bishop and 
confessor.&mdash;At Tongres, St. Martin, bishop.&mdash;In the 
diocese of Evreux, St. Leutfrid, abbot. 



C6e Ctoentp^econD Dap of 3fune, 

A T Nola, in Campania, the birthday of blessed Pau- 
^ linus, bishop and confessor, who, although a most 
noble and wealthy man, made himself poor and hum- 
ble for Christ; and what is still more admirable, 
became a slave to liberate a widow's son, who had 
been carried to Africa by the Vandals, when they 
devastated Campania. He was celebrated, not only 
for his learning and exceptional holiness of life, but 
also for his power over the demons. His great merit 
has been extolled by Saints Ambrose, Jerome, Au- 
gustine and Gregory, in their writings. His body, 
at first transferred to Benevento, and thence to 
Rome, was restored to Nola by order of Pius X.&mdash;At 
Rome, blessed&mdash;Innocent V., pope, who labored with 
mildness and prudence to maintain liberty for the 
Church and harmony among Christians. The ven- 
eration paid to him, pope Leo XIII. approved and 
confirmed. On Mount Ararat, the martyrdom of 
ten thousand holy martyrs, who were crucified.&mdash;At 
Verulam, in England, in the time of Diocletian, St. 



182 JUNE. 

Alban, martyr, who gave himself up to save a cleric 
whom he had harbored. After being scourged and 
subjected to bitter torments, he was sentenced to 
capital punishment. With him suffered also one of 
the soldiers that led him to execution, who was con- 
verted to Christ on the way, and merited to be bap- 
tized, in his own blood.&mdash;At Samaria, fourteen hun- 
dred and eighty holy martyrs, under Chosroes, king 
of Persia.&mdash;At Rome, the translation of St. Flavius 
Clemens, ex-consul and martyr, who was put to 
death for the faith of Christ by the emperor Domi- 
tian. His body was found in the basilica of pope 
St. Clement, and buried there with great pomp. 
The same day, St. Niaeas, bishop of the town of 
Bomatia, celebrated for his learning and holy life. 
At Naples, in Campania, St. John, bishop, who was 
called to the kingdom of heaven by blessed Paulinus, 
bishop of Nola.&mdash;In the monastery of Cluny, St. Con- 
sortia, virgin. 



Ci)e CtoentHfntD Dag of 3(une, 

mHE vigil of St. John the Baptist.&mdash;At Borne, in 
the reign of Julian the Apostate, St. John, a 
priest, who was decapitated on the old Salarian 
road, before an idol of the sun. His body was buried 
near those of other martyrs by the blessed priest 
Concordius.&mdash;Also, at Borne, St. Agrippina, virgin 



JUNE. 183 

and martyr, under the emperor Valerian. Her body 
was carried to Sicily, where it works many miracles. 
At Sutri, in Tuscany, St. Felix, priest. By the 
command of the prefect Turcius, he was struck on 
the mouth with a stone until he breathed his last. 
At Nicomedia, in the time of Diocletian, the com- 
memoration of many holy martyrs, who concealed 
themselves in mountains and caverns, and joyfully 
underwent martyrdom for the name of Christ.&mdash;At 
Philadelphia, in Arabia, the holy martyrs Zeno, and 
Zenas, his slave. When the latter kissed the chains 
of his master, begging to be his partner in torments, 
he was arrested by the soldiers, and received the 
crown of martyrdom with him.&mdash;In England, St. Au- 
dry, queen and virgin, who departed for heaven with 
a great renown for sanctity and miracles. Her 
body was found without corruption eleven years 
afterwards. 



C&e Ctoentgsfourtf) Dap of 3fiine, 



mHE Nativity of St. John the Baptist, precursor 
- of our Lord, son of Zachary and Elizabeth, who, 
while yet in his mother's womb, was filled with the 
Holy Ghost.&mdash;At Rome, in the time of Nero, the 
commemoration of many holy martyrs, who were 
accused of having set fire to the city, and cruelly put 
to death in various manners by the emperor's order. 
Some were covered with the skins of wild beasts and 



184 JUNB. 

lacerated by dogs; others were fastened to crosses, 
others again were delivered to the flames to serve as 
torches in the night. All these were disciples of the 
Apostles, and the first fruits of the martyrs, which 
the Roman Church, a field so fertile in martyrs, 
offered to God before the death of the Apostles.&mdash;In 
the same city, the holy martyrs Faustus and twenty- 
three others.&mdash;At Satalis, in Armenia, seven saintly 
brothers, martyrs: Orentius, Heros, Pharnacius, 
Firminus, Firmus, Cyriacus and Longinus, who owe 
their martyrdom to the emperor Maximian. Be- 
cause they were Christians, they were deprived of 
the military cincture by his command, separated 
from one another, hurried away to various places, 
and in the midst of painful trials, found their re- 
pose in the Lord.&mdash;In the diocese of Paris, at Creteil, 
the martyrdom of the Saints Agoardus and Agliber- 
tus, with a multitude of others of both sexes.&mdash;At 
Autun, the demise of St. Simplicius, bishop and 
confessor.&mdash;At Lobbes, St. Theodulphus, bishop.&mdash;At 
Stilo, in Calabria, St. John, surnamed Therestus, 
distinguished for his fidelity to the monastic rule, 
and for his sanctity. 



Cfie CtoentgsfiftJ) Dap of 3ftme* 

TN the territory of Guletto, near Nusco, St. Wil- 

liam, confessor, founder of the hermits of Mount 

Vergine.&mdash;At Beraea, the birthday of St. Sosipater, 



JUNE. 185 

disciple of the blessed apostle Paul.&mdash;At Rome, St. 
Lucy, virgin and martyr, with twenty-two others. 
At Alexandria, St. Gallicanus, ex-consul and martyr, 
who had been honored with a triumph, and was held 
in affection by the emperor Constantine. Converted 
by Saints John and Paul, he withdrew to Ostia with 
St. Hilarinus, and devoted himself entirely to the 
duties of hospitality and to the service of the sick. 
The report of such an event spread through the 
whole world, and from all sides many persons came 
to see a man who had been a senator and consul, 
washing the feet of the poor, preparing their table, 
serving them, carefully waiting on the infirm, and 
performing other works of mercy. Driven from this 
place by Julian the Apostate, he repaired to Alex- 
andria, where, for refusing to sacrifice to idols, at 
the command of the judge Raucian, he was put to 
the sword, and thus became a martyr of Christ. 
At Sibapolis, in Syria, under the goveronr Lysi- 
machus, in the persecution of Diocletian, St. Febro- 
nia, virgin and martyr, who was scourged and racked 
for defending her faith and her chastity, then torn 
with iron combs and exposed to fire. Finally, hav- 
ing her teeth plucked out and her breasts cut off, she 
was condemned to capital punishment, and went to 
her spouse adorned with her sufferings as with so 
many jewels.&mdash;At Besancon, in France, St. Antidius, 
bishop and martyr, who was killed by the Vandals 
for the faith of Christ.&mdash;At Riez, St. Prosper of 
Aquitaine, bishop of that city, distinguished by his 



186 JUNE. 

erudition and piety. He valiantly combated the 
Pelagians in defence of the Catholic faith.&mdash;At Tu- 
rin, the birthday of St. Maximus, bishop and con- 
fessor, most celebrated for his learning and sanctity. 
In Holland, St. Adelbert, confessor, disciple of the 
sainted bishop Willibrord. 



C6e Ctoentp^fetfi Dap of 3fune. 



{ T Eome, on Mount Coelius, the holy martyrs John 
and Paul, brothers. The former was steward, 
the other secretary of the virgin Constantia, daugh- 
ter of the emperor Constantine. Afterwards, under 
Julian the Apostate, they received the palm of mar- 
tyrdom by being beheaded.&mdash;At Trent, St. Vigilius, 
bishop, who, whilst he endeavored to root out the 
remains of idolatry, was overwhelmed with a shower 
of stones by cruel and barbarous men, and thus en- 
dured martyrdom for the name of Christ.&mdash;At Cor- 
dova, in Spain, under the Saracen king Abderahman, 
the birthday of St. Pelagius, a young man who glori- 
ously consummated his martyrdom for the faith by 
having his flesh torn to pieces with iron pincers. 
At Valenciennes, the holy martyrs Salvius, bishop 
of Angouleme, and Superius.&mdash;Also, the comemmora- 
tion of St. Anthelmus, bishop of Belley.&mdash;In Poitou, 
St. Maxentius, priest and confessor, renowned for 
miracles.&mdash;At Thessalonica, St. David, hermit. The 
same day, St. Perseveranda, virgin. 



JUNE. 187 

Cfte Ctoemp*0efcentl) Dap of 3fune, 

TN Galatia, St. Crescens, disciple of the blessed 
apostle Paul.&mdash;In passing through Gaul, he con- 
verted many to the Christian faith by his preaching. 
Returning to the people for whom especially he had 
been made bishop, he maintained, to the end of his 
life, the Galatians in the service of the Lord, and 
finally consummated his martyrdom under Trajan. 
At Cordova, St. Zoilus, and nineteen other martyrs. 
At Caesarea, in Palestine, in the persecution of 
Diocletian, under the governor Urbanus, St. Anec- 
tus, martyr. For having exhorted others to suffer 
martyrdom, and overthrown idols by his prayers, he 
was scourged by ten soldiers, had his hands and feet 
cut off, and by decapitation merited the crown of 
martyrdom.&mdash;At Constantinople, St. Sampson, a 
priest who harbored the poor.&mdash;At Warasdin, in 
Hungary, the holy king Ladislas, greatly renowned 
to this day for miracles. 



Cfte Ctoentp^eigfttft Dap of 3[une, 

HHHE vigil of the holy apostles Peter and Paul.&mdash;At 
Rome, pope St. Leo II.&mdash;At Lyons, in France, St. 
Irenseus, bishop and martyr, who, as is related by 
St. Jerome, was the disciple of blessed Polycarp, 
bishop of Smyrna, and lived near the time of the 



188 JUNE. 

Apostles. After having strenuously opposed the 
heretics by speech and writing, he was crowned with 
a glorious martyrdom, with almost all the people of 
his city, during the persecution of Severus.&mdash;At 
Alexandria, in the same persecution of Severus, the 
holy martyrs Plutarch, Serenus, Heraclides, cate- 
chumen, Heron, neophyte, another Serenus, Rhais, 
catechumen, Potamicena and Marcella, her mother. 
Among them, the virgin Potamioena is particularly 
distinguished. She first endured many most painful 
trials for the preservation of her virginity, and then 
cruel and unheard-of torments for the faith, after 
which she and her mother were consumed with fire. 
The same day, during the persecution of Diocle- 
tian, St. Papius, martyr, who was scourged with 
knotted cords, cast into a caldron of seething oil 
and grease, and after other horrible torments, was 
decapitated, and thus won an eternal crown.&mdash;At 
Maestricht, St. Benignus, bishop and martyr.&mdash;At 
Cordova, St. Argymirus, monk and martyr, who was 
slain for the faith of Christ during the persecution 
of the Arabs.&mdash;At Rome, St. Paul, pope and con- 
fessor. 



C6e Ctoemp*mntf) Dap of 3fune, 

AT Rome, the birthday of the holy apostles Peter 
^ and Paul, who suffered martyrdom on the same 
day, under the emperor Nero. Within the city the 



JUNE. 189 

former was crucified with his dead downwards, and 
buried in the Vatican, near the Triumphal way, 
where he is venerated by the whole world. The lat- 
ter was put to the sword and buried on the Ostian 
way, where he receives similar honors.&mdash;At Argen- 
ton, St. Marcellus, martyr, who was beheaded for the 
faith of Christ together with the soldier Anastasius. 
At Genoa, the birthday of St. Syrius, bishop.&mdash;At 
Narni, St. Cassius, bishop of that city, of whom St. 
Gergory relates, that he permitted scarcely any day 
of his life to pass without offering the victim of pro- 
pitiation to Almighty God; and he was well worthy 
to do it, for he distributed in alms all he possessed, 
and his devotion was such that abundant tears 
flowed from his eyes during the holy sacrifice.&mdash;At 
last, he came to Home on the birthday of the Apos- 
tles, as was his yearly custom, and after having sol- 
emnly celebrated Mass and given the Lord's body 
and the kiss of peace to all, he departed for heaven. 
In Cyprus, St. Mary, mother of John, surnamed 
Mark.&mdash;In the territory of Sens, St. Benedicta, 
virgin. 



Cfte Cftirttetft Dap of 3[une. 

fTIHE commemoration of the holy apostle Paul. 

-&mdash;At Limoges, in France, St. Martial, bishop, with 

two priests, Alpinian and Austriclinian, whose lives 

were distinguished for miracles. The same day, the 



190 JUNE. 

saints Caius, priest, and Leo, subdeacon.&mdash;At Alex- 
andria, the passion of St. Basilides, under the eni- 
peror Severus. He protected from the insults of 
profligate men the saintly virgin Potamioena, whom 
he was leading to execution, and received from her 
the reward of his pious action. For, at the end of 
three days, she appeared to him, and placing a crown 
on his head, not only converted him to Christ, but 
by her prayers made of him, after a short combat, 
a glorious martyr.&mdash;At Rome, St. Lucina, a disciple 
of the Apostles, who relieved the necessities of the 
saints with her goods, visited the Christians detained 
in prison, buried the martyrs, and was laid by their 
side in a crypt constructed by herself.&mdash;In the same 
city, St. ^Emiliana, martyr.&mdash;In the territory of 
Viviers, St. Ostian, priest and confessor. 




JULY. 

Cfte JFim Dag of 3[uip, 

HE Octave of St. John the Baptist. Feast 
of the Most Precious Blood of Our Lord 
Jesus Christ. On Mount Hor, the de- 
mise of St. Aaron, the first priest of the 
Levitical Order.&mdash;In England, the holy martyrs 
Julius and Aaron, who suffered after St. Al- 
ban, in the persecution of Diocletian.&mdash;In the 
same country, a great number being at that time 
tortured in different manners and barbarously lac- 
erated, ended their combat, and attained to the joys 
of the heavenly city.&mdash;At Mechlin, the martyrdom 
of St. Rumold, son of an Irish king, and bishop of 
Dublin.&mdash;At Sinuessa, the holy martyrs Castus and 
Secundinus, bishops.&mdash;At Vienne, St. Martin, bishop 
and disciple of the Apostles.&mdash;At Clermont, in Au- 
vergne, St. Gal, bishop.&mdash;In the diocese of Lyons, 
the decease of St. Domitian, abbot, who was the first 
to lead there an eremitical life. After having assem- 
bled in that place many servants of God, and gained 
great renown for virtues and miracles, he was gath- 
ered to his fathers at an advanced aga&mdash;In the dio- 
cese of Rheims, St. Theodoric, priest and disciple of 
the blessed bishop Remigius.&mdash;At Angouleme, St. 



192 JULY. 

Eparchius, abbot.&mdash;At Emesa, St. Simeon, surnamed 
Salus, confessor, who feigned to be an idiot for 
Christ; but God manifested his high wisdom by 
great miracles.&mdash;At Vicenza, the demise of St. Theo- 
bald, of the Counts of Campania, hermit, who was 
added to the number of the saints by Alexander III. 
on account of his holiness and miracles. 



Cfie SeconD Dap of Julp* 

T1HE Visitation of the Blessed Virgin Mary to 
Elizabeth.&mdash;At Rome, on the Aurelian road, the 
birthday of the holy martyrs Processus and Martin- 
ian, who were baptized by the blessed apostle Peter 
in the Mamertine prison. After being struck on the 
mouth, racked, scourged with thongs and whips tip- 
ped with pieces of metal ; after being beaten with 
rods and exposed to the flames, they were beheaded 
in the days of Nero, and thus obtained the crown 
of martyrdom.&mdash;Also, at Rome, three holy soldiers, 
who were converted to Christ by the martyrdom of 
the blessed Apostle Paul, and with him merited to 
be made partakers of heavenly glory. The same day, 
the holy martyrs Ariston, Crescentian, Eutychian, 
Urbanus, Vitalis, Justus, Felicissimus, Felix, Mar- 
cia, and Symphorosa, who were all crowned with 
martyrdom when the persecution of the emperor 
Diocletian was raging.&mdash;At Winchester, in England, 



JULY. 193 

St. Swithin, bishop, whose sanctity was illustrated 
by the gift of miracles.&mdash;At Bamberg,the holy bishop 
Otho, who preached the Gospel to the people of Pom- 
erania, and converted them to the faith.&mdash;At Tours, 
the demise of St. Monegundes, a pious woman. 



C6e CftirD Dap of 3[ulp, 

A T Alexandria, St. Tryphon, and twelve other mar- 
^ tyrs.&mdash;At Constantinople, the holy martyrs Eu- 
logius and his companions.&mdash;At Csesarea, in Cappa- 
docia, St. Hyacinthus, chamberlain of the emperor 
Trajan. Accused of being a Christian, he was 
scourged and thrown into prison, where, consumed 
with hunger, he breathed his last.&mdash;At Chiusi, in 
Tuscany, in the reign of the emperor Trajan, the 
holy martyrs Irenaeus, deacon, and Mustiola, a ma- 
tron, who were subjected to various atrocious tor- 
tures and merited the crown of martyrdom. The 
same day, the holy martyrs Mark and Mucian, who 
were put to the sword for Christ. As a small boy 
cried out to them not to sacrifice to idols, he was 
whipped, but confessing Christ all the more vigor- 
ously, he was killed with a man named Paul, who 
had also exhorted the martyrs.&mdash;At Laodicea, in 
Syria, St. Anatolius, a bishop, whose writings were 
admired not only by religious men, but even by phil- 
osophers.&mdash;At Altino, St. Heliodorus, a bishop dis- 

13 



194 JULY. 

tinguished for holiness and learning.&mdash;At Ravenna, 
St. Dathus, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Edessa, in 
Mesopotamia, the translation of the apostle St. 
Thomas from&mdash;India. His relics were afterwards 
taken to Tortona. 



Cfie JFotmj) Dap of 3fulp* 

FjlHE prophets Osee and Aggseus.&mdash;In Africa, the 
* birthday of St. Jucundian, a martyr who was 
drowned in the sea for Christ.&mdash;In the diocese of 
Bourges, St. Laurian, bishop of Seville and martyr, 
whose head was taken to Seville, in Spain.&mdash;At Sir- 
mium, Saints&mdash;Innocent and Sebastia, with thirty 
other martyrs.&mdash;At Madaurus, in Africa, the mar- 
tyr Namphanion and his companions, whom he 
strengthened for the combat and led to the crown 
of martyrdom.&mdash;At Gyrene, in Lybia, the holy bishop 
Theodore.&mdash;In the persecution of Diocletian, under 
the governor Dignian, he was scourged with leaded 
whips, and had his tongue cut out. Finally, how- 
ever, he died a confessor. The same day, the birth- 
day of the Saints Flavian II., bishop of Antioch, 
and Elias, bishop of Jerusalem, who were driven into 
exile by the emperor Anastasius, in defense of the 
Council of Chalcedon, and went victoriously to God. 
At Augsburg, in Bavaria, St. Uldaric, a bishop 
illustrious for extraordinary abstinence, liberality, 
vigilance, and the gift of miracles.&mdash;At Lisbon, St. 



JULY. 195 

Elizabeth, widow, queen of Portugal, whose festival 
is celebrated on the 8th of this month, by order of 
Innocent XII.&mdash;At Tours, the translation of St. 
Martin, bishop and confessor, and the Dedication 
of his Basilica, which took place on the anniversary 
of his elevation to the episcopate some years pre- 
vious. 



Cfte Jfiftfi Dap of 3[ulp, 

AT Cremona, in&mdash;Insubria, St. Anthony Mary Zac- 
" caria, confessor, founder of the Barnabites and 
the Angelic Virgins.. Distinguished for all the vir- 
tues and for miracles, he was placed among the 
Saints by Leo XIII. His body is venerated in the 
church of St. Barnabas, at Milan.&mdash;At Rome, St. 
Zoe, martyr, wife of the blessed martyr Nicostratus. 
Whilst praying at the tomb of the apostle St. Peter, 
during the time of Diocletian, she was seized by the 
persecutors, and cast into a dark dungeon ; then be- 
ing suspended on a tree by her neck and hair, and 
suffocated by a loathsome smoke, she yielded up her 
soul in the confession of the Lord.&mdash;In Syria, the 
birthday of St. Domitius, martyr, who by his mir- 
acles confers many favors on the people of that 
country.&mdash;At Gyrene, in Lybia, St. Cyrilla, a martyr, 
in the persecution of Diocletian. For a long while 
she held on her hand burning coals with incense, lest 
by shaking off the coals she should seem to offer in- 



196 JULY. 

cense to the idols. She was afterwards cruelly 
scourged, and went to her spouse adorned with her 
own blood.&mdash;At Jerusalem, St.&mdash;Athanasius, a dea- 
con, who was apprehended by the heretics for de- 
fending the Council of Chalcedon, and after experi- 
encing all kinds of torments, was put to the sword. 
In Sicily, the holy martyrs Agatho and Triphina. 
At Tomis, in Scythia, the holy martyrs Marinus, 
Theodotus, and Sedopha.&mdash;At Treves, St. Numerian, 
bishop and confessor. St. Michael of the Saints, 
whose death is mentioned on the 10th of April.&mdash;At 
San Severino, in the March of Ancona, St. Philo- 
mena, virgin. 



C&e Sfetl) Dap of 3fulp, 

fTlHE Octave of the holy apostles Peter and Paul. 
*&mdash;In Judea, the holy prophet Isaias.&mdash;In the reign 
of king Manasses he was put to death by being sawed 
in two and was buried beneath the oak Rogel, near a 
running stream.&mdash;At Rome, the birthday of St. 
Tranquillinus, martyr, father of the Saints Mark 
and Marcellian, who were converted to Christ by the 
preaching of the martyr St. Sebastian. Baptized 
by the blessed priest Polycarp, he was ordained 
priest by pope St. Caius. He was arrested while 
praying at the tomb of blessed Paul on the Octave 
of the Apostles, and stoned to death by the Pagans, 
and thus consummated his martyrdom.&mdash;At Fiesoli, 



JULY. 197 

in Tuscany, St. Romulus, bishop and martyr, dis- 
ciple of the blessed apostle Peter, who commissioned 
him to preach the Gospel. After announcing Christ 
in many parts of Italy, he returned to Fiesoli, and 
was crowned with martyrdom with other Christians 
in the reign of Domitian.&mdash;In Campania, St. Domi- 
nica, virgin and martyr, in the time of the emperor 
Diocletian. For having destroyed idols, she was 
condemned to the beasts, but being uninjured by 
them, she was beheaded and departed for heaven. 
Her body is kept with great veneration at Tropea, 
in Calabria. The same day, St. Lucia, martyr, a 
native of Campania. Being arrested and severely 
tortured by the lieutenant-governor Rictiovarus, she 
converted him to Christ. To them were added An- 
toninus, Severinus, Diodorus, Dion, and seventeen 
others, who shared their sufferings and their crowns. 
In the vicinity of Treves, St. Goar, priest and 
confessor. 



Cfte Setoentft Dap of 3[ulp, 

nnHE holy bishops Cyril and Methodius, who are 
mentioned on the 9th of March.&mdash;At Rome, the 
holy martyrs Claudius, notary, Niostratus, assis- 
tant prefect, Castorius, Victorinus, and Symphorian, 
who were brought to the faith of Christ by St. Se- 
bastian, and baptized by the blessed priest Polycarp. 
Whilst they were engaged in searching for the bodies 



198 JULY. 

of the holy martyrs, the judge Fabian had them ar- 
rested, and for ten days he tried by threats and 
caresses to shake their constancy, but being utterly 
unable to succeed, he ordered them to be thrice tor- 
tured, and then percipitated into the sea.&mdash;At Du- 
razzo, in Macedonia, the holy martyrs Peregrinus> 
Lucian, Pompeius, Hesychius, Papius, Saturninus, 
and Germanus, natives of Italy.&mdash;In the persecution 
of Trajan, they took refuge in the town of Durazzo, 
where seeing the saintly bishop Astius hanging on a 
cross for the faith of Christ, they publicly declared 
themselves to be Christians, when, by order of the 
governor, they were arrested and cast into the sea. 
At Perugia, blessed Benedict XI., a native of Tre- 
viso of the Order of Preachers, who in the brief 
space of his pontificate, greatly promoted the peace 
of the Church, the restoration of discipline and the 
spread of religion.&mdash;At Alexandria, the birthday of 
St. Pantaenus, an apostolic man, filled with wisdom. 
He had such an affection and love for the word of 
God, and was so inflamed with the ardor of faith 
and devotion, that he set out to preach the gospel of 
Christ to the Gentiles inhabiting the farthest re- 
cesses of the East.&mdash;At length returning to Alexan- 
dria, he rested in peace, under Antoninus Caracalla. 
At Brescia, St. Apollonius, bishop and confes- 
sor.&mdash;In Saxony, St. Willibald, first bishop of Eich- 
stadt, who labored with St. Boniface in preaching 
the Gospel, and converted many nations to Christ. 
At Clermont, in Auvergne, St. Illidius, bishop.&mdash;At 



JULY. 199 

Urgel, in Spain, St. Odo, bishop.&mdash;In England, St. 
Hedda, bishop of the West- Saxons.&mdash;At Gray, in 
Burgundy, blessed Peter Fourier, Canon Regular of 
the most holy Saviour, renowned for virtues and 
miracles.&mdash;In England, St. Edelburga, virgin, daugh- 
ter of an English king. 



Cfte OEigfttfi Dap of 3fulp, 

T. ELIZABETH, widow, queen of Portugal. Be- 
ing renowned for virtues and miracles, she was 
numbered among the saints by Urban VIII.&mdash;In 
Asia Minor, the Saints Aquila and his wife Pris- 
cilla, of whom mention is made in the Acts of the 
Apostles.&mdash;At Porto, fifty holy soldiers, martyrs, 
who were led to the faith by the martyrdom of St. 
Bonosa, and baptized by the blessed pope Felix. 
They were put to death in the persecution of Aure- 
lian.&mdash;In Palestine, in the reign of Diocletian, St. 
Procopius, martyr, who was brought from Scythop- 
olis to Caesarea, and upon his first resolute answer 
was beheaded by the judge Fabian.&mdash;At Constanti- 
nople, the holy Abrahamite monks, who resisted the 
emperor Theophilus by defending the worship of 
holy images, and suffered matryrdom.&mdash;At Wurtz- 
burg, in Germany, St. Kilian, bishop, who was com- 
missioned by the Roman Pontiff to preach the Gos- 
pel. After having converted many to Christ, he 



200 JULY. 

was put to death with his companions, Column, a 
priest, and Totnan, a deacon.&mdash;At Rome, the blessed 
Eugenius II., pope. Having gained a great reputa- 
tion for sanctity and prudence in his government of 
the monastery of Saints Vincent and Anastasius, he 
was raised to the Sovereign Pontificate and ruled 
over the universal Church with much holiness. Pope 
Pius IX. approved and confirmed the veneration 
paid to him.&mdash;At Treves, St. Auspicius, bishop and 
confessor. 



Cfie H2imft Dap of 3fitlp, 

A T Rome, in the place called the Drop-ever-falling, 
the birthday of St. Zeno, and ten thousand two 
hundred and three other martyrs.&mdash;At Gortyna, in 
Crete, in the persecution of Decius, under the gov- 
ernor Lucius, St. Cyril, a bishop, who was thrown 
into the flames without being injured, though his 
bonds were burnt. The judge, struck with awe at 
so great a miracle, set him at liberty, but as the 
saint began again immediately to preach the faith of 
Christ with zeal, he was beheaded.&mdash;In the town of 
Thora, on lake Velino, in Italy, the martyrdom of 
the Saints Anatolia and Audax, under the emperor 
Decius. Anatolia, a virgin consecrated to Christ, 
cured, through the whole province of Picenum,* 



* Now Ancona. 



JULY. 201 

many persons laboring under various infirmities, 
and made them believe in Christ. By order of the 
judge Fustinian, she was condemned to various 
kinds of punishments. She was cured of the sting 
of a serpent to which she had been exposed ; a mir- 
acle which converted Audax to the faith. Finally 
she was transpierced with a sword, whilst her 
hands were extended in prayer. Audax was com- 
mitted to prison, and being without delay sentenced 
to capital punishment, obtained the crown of a mar- 
tyr.&mdash;At Alexandria, the holy martyrs Patermu- 
thius, Copres, and Alexander, who were put to death 
under Julian the Apostate.&mdash;At Briel, in Holland, 
the martyrdom of the nineteen martyrs of Gorcum. 
For vindicating the authority of the Roman Church, 
and the real presence of Christ in the Eucharist, 
they endured various ignominies and torments from 
the Calvinist heretics, and ended their suffering by 
being put to death.&mdash;In the year 1867, Pius IX. 
placed them among the holy martyrs.&mdash;At Martula, 
St. Brixius, bishop. Under the judge Marcian, after 
having suffered much for the confession of our Lord, 
and converted to Christ a great multitude of people, 
he rested in peace.&mdash;At Citta-di-Castello, St. Veron- 
ica Giuliani, a Capuchin nun, abbess of the monas- 
tery of that town. Born at Mercatelli, in the dio- 
cese of Urania, she became illustrious by her great 
love for suffering and other virtues, and by her heav- 
enly gifts. She was inscribed among holy virgins 
by pope Gregory XVI. 



202 JULY. 



Cfie Cent!) Dap of 

A T Rome, the martyrdom of the seven holy broth- 
^ ers, sons of the saintly martyr Felicitas, namely, 
Januarius, Felix, Philip, Sylvanus, Alexander, Vi- 
talis, and Martial, in the time of the emperor Anto- 
ninus, under Publius, prefect of the city. Januarius, 
after being scourged with rods and detained in 
prison, died under the blows inflicted with leaded 
whips. Felix and Philip were scourged to death, 
Sylvanus was thrown headlong from an eminence. 
Alexander, Vitalis, and Martial were condemned to 
capital punishment.&mdash;Also, at Rome, in the persecu- 
tion of Valerian and Gallienus, the holy virgins and 
martyrs Eufina and Secunda, sisters, who, after being 
subjected to torments, the one having her head 
split open, the other being decapitated, departed for 
heaven. Their bodies are kept with due honor in the 
Lateran Basilica, near the baptistery.&mdash;In Africa, the 
holy martyrs Januarius, Marinus, Nabor, and Felix, 
who were beheaded.&mdash;At Nicopolis, in Armenia, the 
holy martyrs Leontius, Mauritius, Daniel, and their 
companions, who after being tortured in different 
manners, were finally cast into the fire, and thus 
terminated their long martyrdom, in the time of the 
emperor Licinius and the governor Lysias.&mdash;In Pi- 
sidia, the holy martyrs Bianor and Silvanus, who 
merited an immortal crown by being decapitated, 
after enduring most bitter torments for the name of 



JULY. 203 

Christ.&mdash;At Iconium, St. Apollonius, martyr, who 
consummated his glorious martyrdom by death on 
the cross.&mdash;At Ghent, St. Amelberga, virgin. 



Cfie (Bletoentl) Dag of 3[ulp, 

AT Rome, the blessed Pius, pope and martyr, who 
*" was crowned with martyrdom in the persecution 
of Marcus Aurelius Antoninus.&mdash;At Niopolis, in 
Armenia, the birthday of the holy martyrs Januarius 
and Pelagia, who for four days were racked, torn 
with iron claws and pieces of earthenware, and thus 
achieved their martyrdom.&mdash;In the territory of Sens, 
St. Sidronius, martyr.&mdash;At Iconium, St. Marcian, 
martyr, who obtained the palm of martyrdom by 
many torments, under the governor Perennius.&mdash;At 
Sida, in Pamphylia, St. Cindeus, priest, in the time 
of the emperor Diocletian and the governor Straton- 
icus. After suffering many torments, he was thrown 
into the fire, but remaining uninjured, he yielded up 
his soul in prayer.&mdash;At Brescia, the holy martyrs 
Savinus and Cyprian.&mdash;At Bergamo, St. John, a 
bishop, who was killed by the Arians for defending 
the Catholic faith.&mdash;At Cordova, St. Abundius, a 
priest, crowned with martyrdom whilst preaching 
against the sect of Mahomet.&mdash;In the territory of 
Poitiers, St. Sabinus, confessor. 



204 JULY. 



Cfie Ctoelfti) Dap of 3fulp, 

TN the monastery of Passignano, near Florence, the 
abbot St. John Gualbert, founder of the Vallum 
brosan Order.&mdash;At Milan, the holy martyrs Nabor 
and Felix, who suffered in the persecution of Max- 
imian.&mdash;In Cyprus, St. Jason, one of the first dis- 
ciples of Christ.&mdash;At Aquileia, the birthday of St. 
Hermagoras, disciple of the blessed evangelist Mark, 
and first bishop of that city. Whilst occupied in 
performing miraculous cures, in preaching fre- 
quently and bringing souls to repentance, he suf- 
fered many kinds of torments, and finally by capital 
punishment, merited an immortal triumph with his 
deacon Fortunatus.&mdash;At Lucca, in Tuscany, blessed 
Paulinus, who was consecrated first bishop of that 
city by St. Peter. Under Nero, after many combats, 
he terminated his martyrdom with some compan- 
ions, at the foot of Mount Pisa. The same day, the 
Saints Proclus and Hilarion, who won the palm of 
martyrdom after most bitter torments, in 1he time 
of the emperor Trajan and the governor Maximns. 
At Lentini, St. Epiphana, who, after having her 
breasts cut off, died in the time of the emperor Dio- 
cletian and the governor Tertillus.&mdash;At Toledo, St. 
Marciana, virgin and martyr. For 'the faith of 
Christ, she was exposed to the beasts, torn to pieces 
by a bull, and was thus crowned with martyrdom. 



JULY. 205 

At Lyons, St. Viventiolus, bishop.&mdash;At Bologna, St. 
Paternian, bishop. 



Cfje Cftirteentfi Dap of 3fulp, 

A T Rome, St. Anacletus, pope and martyr, who gov- 
^ erned the Church of God after St. Clement, and 
shed lustre on it by a glorious martyrdom. The 
same day, the holy prophets Joel and Esdras.&mdash;In 
Macedonia, blessed Silas, one of the first Christians. 
By the Apostles he was destined for the churches 
of the Gentiles with Paul and Barnabas. Filled 
with the grace of God, he zealously discharged the 
office of preaching, and after glorifying Christ by 
his sufferings, rested in peace.&mdash;Also, St. Serapion, 
martyr, who obtained the crown of martyrdom by 
fire, in the time of the emperor Severus and the 
governor Aquila.&mdash;In the island of Chio, in the 
time of the emperor Decius and the governor Nu- 
merian, the martyr St. Myrops. Being clubbed to 
death, he went to our Lord.&mdash;In Africa, the holy 
confessors Eugenius, the faithful and virtuous 
bishop of Carthage, and all the clergy of that church, 
to the number of about five hundred or more, among 
whom were many small children employed as lectors. 
In the persecution of the Vandals, under the Arian 
king Hunneric, they were subjected to scourging and 
starvation, and driven into a most painful banish- 
ment, which they bore with joy for God's sake.&mdash;In 



206 JULY. 

their number were also two distinguished person- 
ages, the archdeacon Salutaris, and Muritta, occu- 
pying the second rank among the ministers of the 
church. Both had three times confessed the faith, 
and were illustrious by their sturdy perseverance in 
Christianity.&mdash;In Bretagne, St. Turian, bishop and 
confessor, a man of admirable simplicity and inno- 
cence. 



Cfje Jfoiitteenti) Dap of 3fulp 

AT Lyons, the demise of St. Bonaventure, Cardi- 
" nal and bishop of Albano, confessor and doctor 
of the Order of Minorites, most celebrated for his 
learning and holiness of life.&mdash;At Home, St. Justus, 
soldier under the tribune Claudius. A miraculous 
cross appearing to him, he believed in Christ, was 
baptized, and bestowed his goods on the poor. Ar- 
rested afterwards by the prefect Magnetius, he was 
scourged, had a heated helmet put on his head, and 
was thrown into the fire, but without injury even to 
a hair of his head, Finally, he yielded up his soul 
in the confession of the Lord.&mdash;At Sinope, in Pon- 
tus, the martyrs St. Phocas, bishop of that city. 
Under the emperor Trajan, after having been impris- 
oned, bound, struck with the sword and exposed to 
the fire for Christ, he took his flight to heaven. His 
remains were brought to Vienne, in France, and de- 
posited in the church of the holy apostles.&mdash;At Alex- 



JULY. 207 

andria, St. Heraclas, bishop, whose fame was so 
great that the historian Africanus repaired to Alex- 
andria to see him, as he himself testifies.&mdash;At Carth- 
age, St. Cyrus, bishop, on whose festival St. Augus- 
tine spoke of him to his people.&mdash;At Como, St. Felix, 
first bishop of that city.&mdash;At Brescia, St. Optatian, 
bishop.&mdash;At Daventry, in Belgium, St. Marcellin, 
priest and confessor.&mdash;At Rome, St. Camillus de 
Lellis, confessor, founder of the Clerks Regular who 
minister to the sick. Renowned for virtues and 
miracles, he was numbered among the saints by the 
Sovereign Pontiff, Benedict XIV. 



Cfte jfffteent!) Dap of 3fulp* 

A T Bamberg, St. Henry 1., emperor, who kept per- 
^ petual chastity with his wife Cunegunde, and 
induced St. Stephen, king of Hungary, with nearly 
all his kingdom, to receive the faith of Christ.&mdash;At 
Porto, the birthday of the holy martyrs Eutropius, 
and the sisters Zosima and Bonosa.&mdash;At Carthage, 
blessed Catulinus, deacon, whose glories were pro- 
claimed by St. Augustine in a sermon to his people, 
and the Saints Januarius, Florentius, Julia and Jus- 
ta, martyrs, who were entombed in the church of St. 
Faustus.&mdash;At Alexandria, the holy martyrs Philip, 
Zeno, Narseus, and ten children.&mdash;In the island of 
Tenedos, St. Abudemius, a martyr, who suffered un- 



208 JULY. 

der Diocletian.&mdash;At Sebaste, St. Antiochus, a physi- 
cian, who was decapitated under the governor Ad- 
rian. On seeing milk flowing from his wounds in- 
stead of blood, Cyriaeus, his executioner, was con- 
verted to Christ and endured martyrdom.&mdash;At 
Pavia, St. Felix, bishop and martyr.&mdash;At Msibis, 
the birthday of St. James, bishop of that city, a man 
celebrated for great holiness, miracles and erudi- 
tion. He was one of those who confessed the faith 
during the persecution of Galerius Maximian, and 
afterwards, in the Council of Nicaea, condemned the 
perverse heresy of Arius, by opposing to it the doc- 
trine of consubstantiality. It was also owing to his 
prayers, and those of bishop Alexander, that Arius 
received at Constantinople the condign punishment 
of his iniquity, the extravasation of his intestines. 
At Naples, in Campania, St.&mdash;Athanasius, bishop of 
that city, who suffered much from his wicked nephew 
Sergius, by whom he was driven from his see. Con- 
sumed with afflictions, he departed for heaven at 
Veroli, in the time of Charles the Bald.&mdash;At Paler- 
mo, the finding of the body of St. Rosalia, virgin of 
Palermo. Being miraculously discovered in the time 
of the Sovereign Pontiff, Urban VIII., it delivered 
Sicily from the plague in the year of the Jubilee. 



JULY. 209 



Cfte >teteentft Dap of 3[iiip, 

fTlHE festival of the Blessed Virgin Mary of Mount 
- Carmel. The same day, the birthday of St. 
Faustus, a martyr, under Decius. He lived five 
days fastened on a cross, and being then pierced 
with arrows, he went to heaven.&mdash;At Sebaste, in 
Armenia, the holy martyrs&mdash;Athenogenes, bishop, and 
ten of his disciples, in the time of the emperor Dio- 
cletian.&mdash;At Antioch, in Syria, the birthday of 
blessed Eustathius, bishop and confessor, celebrated 
for learning and sanctity. Under the Arian empe- 
ror Constantius, for the defence of the Catholic 
faith, he was banished to Trajanopolis, in Thracia, 
where he rested in the Lord. The same day, St. 
Hilarinus, monk, who was arrested with St. Dona- 
tns in the persecution of Julian. As he would not 
sacrifice to idols, he was beaten with rods, and died 
a martyr at Arezzo, in Tuscany. His body was 
translated to Ostia.&mdash;At Treves, St. Valentine, bish- 
op and martyr.&mdash;At Cordova, in Spain, St. Sisenan- 
dus, deacon and martyr, who was strangled by the 
Saracens for the faith of Chirst.&mdash;At Saintes, in 
France, the holy martyrs Raineldes, virgin, and her 
companions, who were massacred by barbarians for 
the Christian faith.&mdash;At Bergamo, St. Domnio, mar- 
tyr.&mdash;At Capua, St. Vitalian, bishop and confessor. 



14 



210 JULY. 



Cfte Setoemeemi) Dap of 3fiilp, 

AT Rome, St. Alexius, confessor, son of the sena- 
tor Euphemian. Leaving his spouse untouched 
the night of his marriage, he withdrew from his 
house, and after a long pilgrimage returned to 
Rome, where he was for seventeen years harbored 
in his father's house as an unknown beggar, thus 
deluding the world by a new device. But after his 
death, becoming known through a voice heard in 
the churches of the city, and by his own writing, he 
was, under the Sovereign Pontiff,&mdash;Innocent I., trans- 
lated to the church of St. Boniface, where he wrought 
many miracles.&mdash;At Carthage, the birthday of the 
holy Scillitan martyrs Speratus, Narzales, Cythinus, 
Veturius, Felix, Acyllinus, Lsetantius, Januaria, 
Generosa, Vestina, Donata, and Secunda. By order 
of the prefect Saturninus, after their first confes- 
sion of the faith, they were sent to prison, nailed to 
pieces of wood, and finally beheaded. The relics of 
Speratus, with the bones of blessed Cyprian and the 
head of the martyr St. Pantaleon, were carried from 
Africa into France, and religiously placed in the 
basilica of St. John the Baptist at Lyons.&mdash;At 
Amastris, in Paphlagonia, St. Hyacinth, martyr, 
who died in prison after much suffering, under the 
prefect Castritius.&mdash;At Tivoli, St. Generosus, mar- 
tyr.&mdash;At Constantinople, St. Theodota, martyr, un- 
der the Iconoclast Leo.&mdash;At Rome, the demise of 



JULY. 211 

pope St. Leo IV.&mdash;At Pavia, St. Ennodius, bishop 
and confessor.&mdash;At Auxerre, St. Theodosius, bishop. 
At Milan, the virgin St. Marcellina, sister of the 
blessed bishop Ambrose, who received the religious 
veil from pope Liberius in the basilica of St. Peter 
at Rome. Her sanctity is attested by St. Ambrose 
in his writings.&mdash;At Venice, the translation of St. 
Marina, virgin. 



Cfte (CigfiteentJ) Dag of 3[ulp, 

nnHE feast of St. Camillus de Lellis, confessor, 
- founder of the Clerks Regular ministering to the 
sick, whose birthday is the 14th of July. Leo XIII. 
declared him Celestial Patron of hospitals and the 
infirm.&mdash;At Tivoli, in the time of the emperor Ad- 
rian, St. Symphorosa, wife of the martyr St. Getu- 
lius, with her seven sons, Crescens, Julian, Nemesius, 
Primitivus, Justinus, Stacteus, and Eugenius. Their 
mother, because of her invincible constancy, was 
first buffeted a long time, then suspended by her 
hair, and lastly thrown into the river with a stone 
tied to her body. Her sons had their limbs dis- 
tended by pulleys and bound to stakes, and termi- 
nated their martyrdom by different kinds of death. 
The bodies were subsequently taken to Rome, and 
were found in the sacristy of St. Angelo in Piscina, 
under the Sovereign Pontiff, Pius IV.&mdash;At Carthage, 



212 JULY. 

St. Gundenes, virgin. By order of the proconsul 
Rufinus, she was four different times stretched on 
the rack for the faith of Christ, horribly lacerated 
with iron hooks, confined for a long time in a filthy 
dungeon, and finally put to the sword.&mdash;At Doros- 
torum, in Mysia, in the time of Julian the Apostate 
and the governor Capitolinus, St. AEmilian, martyr, 
who was cast into a furnace, and thus received the 
palm of martyrdom.&mdash;At Utrecht, St. Frederick, 
bishop and martyr.&mdash;In Spanish Galicia, St. Ma- 
rina, virgin and martyr.&mdash;At Milan, in the reign of 
Maximian, the holy bishop Maternus. For the faith 
of Christ and the church entrusted to him, he was 
thrown into prison and often scourged. Finally he 
went to his rest in the Lord with a great renown for 
his repeated confession of the faith.&mdash;At Brescia, 
the birthday of St. Philastrius, bishop of that city, 
who in speech and writing combated heretics, espe- 
cially the Arians, from whom he suffered much. 
Finally, he died in peace, renowned for miracles. 
At Metz, in France, St. Arnulf, a bishop illustrious 
for holiness and the gift of miracles. He chose an 
eremitical life, and ended his blessed career in peace. 
At Segni, St. Bruno, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At 
Forlimpopoli, in ^Emilia, St. Ruffillus, bishop of that 
city. 



JULY. 213 



Cfte jQmeteemf) Dap of 3fulp, 

T. VINCENT DE PAUL, confessor, who slept in 
the Lord on the 27th of September. Leo XIII. 
declared him heavenly patron before the throne of 
God of all charitable organizations throughout the 
Catholic world owing in any manner their origin to 
him. The same day, the birthday of St. Epaphras, 
whom the apostle St. Paul calls his fellow-prisoner. 
By the same apostle he was consecrated bishop of 
Colossse, where becoming renowned for his virtues, 
he received the palm of martyrdom for defending 
courageously the flock committed to his charge. His 
body lies at Rome in the basilica of St. Mary the 
Greater.&mdash;At Seville, in Spain, the martyrdom of 
the holy virgins Justa and Rufina. Arrested by the 
governor Diogenian, they were stretched on the rack 
and lacerated with iron claws, then imprisoned, and 
subjected to starvation and various tortures. Lastly 
Justa breathed her last in prison, and Rufina had 
her neck broken while confessing Christ.&mdash;At Cor- 
dova, St. Aurea, virgin, who repented of a fault she 
had committed, and in a second combat overcame 
the enemy by the shedding of her blood.&mdash;At Treves, 
St. Martin, bishop and martyr.&mdash;At Rome, pope St. 
Symmachus, who for a long time had much to bear 
from a faction of schismatics.&mdash;At last, distin- 
guished by holiness, he went to God.&mdash;At Verona, 
St. Felix, bishop.&mdash;At Scete, a mountain in Egypt, 



214 JULY. 

St. Arsenius, a deacon of the Roman church.&mdash;In 
the time of Theodosius, he retired into a wilderness, 
where, endowed with every virtue and shedding con- 
tinual tears, he yielded his soul to God.&mdash;In Cappa- 
docia, the holy virgin Marcina, sister of St. Basil 
the Great and St. Gregory of Nyssa. 



Cfte Ctoemieti) Dap of 3[ulp, 

rjIHE festival of St. Jerome AEmiliani, confessor, 
-- founder of the Congergation of Somascha. Gain- 
ing renown for many miracles during his life and 
after his death, he was inscribed among the beatified 
by Benedict XIV., and canonized by Clement XIII. 
At Antioch, St. Margaret, virgin and martyr. On 
Mount Carmel, the holy prophet Eli as. The same 
day, the birthday of blessed Joseph, surnamed the 
Just, whom the Apostles selected with blessed Mat- 
thias for the apostleship, in the place of the traitor 
Judas. The lot having fallen upon Matthias, Jo- 
seph, notwithstanding, continued to preach and to 
advance in virtue, and after having sustained from 
the Jews many persecutions for the faith of Christ, 
happily ended his life in Judea. It is related of him 
that having drunk poison, he received no injury 
from it, because of his confidence in the Lord.&mdash;At 
Damascus, the holy martyrs Sabinus, Julian, Maxi- 
mus, Macrobius, Cassia, and Paula, with ten others. 



JULY. 215 

At Cordova, St. Paul, deacon and martyr. For 
rebuking Mahometan princes for their impiety and 
cruelty, and preaching Christ courageously, he was 
put to death, and went to his reward in heaven.&mdash;In 
Portugal, St. Wilgefortes, virgin and martyr, who 
merited the crown of martyrdom on a cross in de- 
fence of the faith and her chastity.&mdash;At Boulogne, 
in France, the abbot St. Wulmar, a man of admirable 
sanctity.&mdash;At Treves, St. Severa, virgin. 



Dap of 

AT Rome, the holy virgin Praxedes, who was 
^ brought up in all chastity and in the knowledge 
of the divine law. Assiduously attending to watch- 
ing, prayer and fasting, she rested in Christ, and 
was buried near her sister Pudentiana, on the Salar- 
ian road.&mdash;At Babylon, the holy prophet Daniel. 
At Marseilles, the birthday of St. Victor, a soldier. 
Because he refused to serve in the army and sacrifice 
to idols, he was thrust into prison, where he was 
visited by an angel, then subjected to various tor- 
ments, and finally being crushed under a millstone, 
he ended his martyrdom. With him also suffered 
three soldiers, Alexander, Felician, and Longinus. 
At Troyes, St. Julia, virgin and martyr.&mdash;In the 
same place, the martyrdom of the saints Claudius, 
Justus, Jucundinus, and five companions, in the time 



216 JULY. 

of the emperor Aurelian.&mdash;At Comana, in Armenia, 
the holy bishop and martyr Zoticus,who was crowned 
under Severus.&mdash;At Strasburg, St. Arbogastus, a 
bishop, renowned for miracles.&mdash;In Syria, the holy 
monk John, a companion of St. Simeon. 



C&e Ctoentp^econO Dag of 3fitlp 

A T Marseilles, the birthday of St. Mary Magdalen, 
*" out of whom our Lord expelled seven demons, 
and who deserved to be the first to see the Saviour 
after He had risen from the dead.&mdash;At Philippi, St. 
Syntyches, mentioned by the blessed apostle Paul.- 
At Ancyra, in Galatia, the birthday of the martyr 
St. Plato. Under the lieutenant-governor Agrip- 
pinus, he was scourged, lacerated with iron hooks, 
and subjected to other most atrocious torments, and 
finally being beheaded, he rendered his invincible 
soul to God. The miracles he wrougth in assisting 
the captives are attested in the Acts of the second 
Council of Nicaea.&mdash;In Cyprus, St. Theophilus, a prae- 
tor, who was apprehended by the Arabs, and as he 
could not be induced either by presents or threats 
to deny Christ, was put to the sword.&mdash;At Antioch, 
the holy bishop Cyril, who was distinguished for 
learning and holiness.&mdash;In the territory of Auvergne, 
St. Meneleus, abbot.&mdash;In the monastery of Blandine, 
the abbot St. Vandrille, celebrated for miracles. 



JULY. 217 

At Scythopolis, in Palestine, St. Joseph, a count. 
At Lisbon, St. Lawrence of Brindisi, confessor, su- 
perior general of the Capuchin Minorites of St. 
Francis. Illustrious by his preaching and his ardu- 
ous labor for the glory of God, he was canonized by 
Leo XIII., who appointed the 7th of July for his 
feast day. 



Cfte Ctoentp*tjrirfl Dap of 

rfIHE birthday of the holy bishop Apollinaris, who 
was consecrated at Rome by the apostle Peter, 
and sent to Ravenna, where he endured for the faith 
of Christ many different tribulations. He after- 
wards preached the Gospel in AEmilia, where he con- 
verted many from the worship of idols. Fianlly, re- 
turning to Ravenna, he terminated his confession of 
Christ by a glorious martyrdom under the Caesar 
Vespasian.&mdash;At Le Mans, in France, St. Liborius, 
bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Rome, St. Rasyphus, mar- 
tyr.&mdash;In the same city, the martyrdom of St. Primi- 
tiva, virgin and martyr.&mdash;Also, the holy martyrs 
Apollonius and Eugenius. The same day, the birth- 
day of the holy martyrs Trophimus and Theophilus. 
who received their crown of martyrdom by being 
beaten with stones, scorched with fire, and finally 
struck with the sword, in the time of the emperor 
Diocletian.&mdash;In Bulgaria, many holy martyrs whom 



218 JULY. 

the impious emperor Nicephorus, whilst he was dev- 
astating the churches of God, put to death in various 
ways by the sword, the halter, arrows, long im- 
prisonment, and starvation.&mdash;At Rome, the saintly 
virgins Romula, Redempta, and Herundines, men 
tioned by pope St. Gregory in his writings.&mdash;In the 
same city, the departure from this life of St. Bridget, 
widow, whose sacred body was taken to Sweden on 
the 7th of October. Her feast is celebrated on the 
8th of that month. 



Cfie CtoentHourtJ) Dap of 3fulp, 

fTHE vigil of St. James, apostle.&mdash;At Tyro, 
* in Tuscany, on lake Bolsena, St. Christina, 
virgin and martyr. Believing in Christ, and 
breaking up her father's gold and silver idols 
to give them to the poor, she was cruelly scourged 
by his command, subjected to other most severe tor- 
ments, and thrown with a heavy stone into the lake, 
from which she was drawn out by an angel. Then 
under another judge, who succeeded her father, she 
bore courageously still more bitter tortures. Finally, 
after she had been shut up by the governor Julian 
in a burning furnace for five days without any in- 
jury, and after being cured of the sting of serpents, 
she ended her martyrdom by having her tongue cut 
out, and being pierced with arrows.&mdash;At Rome, on 



JULY. 219 

the Tiburtine road, St. Vincent, martyr.&mdash;At Ami- 
terno, in Abruzzo, the martyrdom of eighty-three 
holy soldiers.&mdash;At Merida, in Spain, St. Victor, a mili- 
tary man, who, with his two brothers, Stercatius 
and Antinogenes, by various torments consummated 
his martyrdom in the persecution of Diocletian. 
In Lycia, the holy matryrs Niceta and Aquilina, 
who were converted to Christ by the preaching of the 
blessed martyr Christopher, and gained the palm of 
martyrdom by being decapitated.&mdash;Also, the holy 
martyrs Meneus and Capito.&mdash;At Sens, St.Ursicinus, 
bishop and confessor. 



Cfte Ctoentgsfiftft Dap of 

OT. JAMES the Apostle, brother of the blessed 
evangelist John, who was beheaded by Herod 
Agrippa about the feast of Easter. His sacred 
bones were on this day carried from Jerusaelm to 
Spain, and placed in the remote province of Galicia, 
where they are devoutly honored by the far-famed 
piety of the inhabitants, and the frequent concourse 
of Christians, who visit them through piety and in 
fulfilment of their vows.&mdash;In Lycia, in the time of 
Decius, St. Christopher, martyr. Being scourged 
with iron rods, cast into the flames, from which he 
was saved by the power of Christ, and finally trans- 
fixed with arrows and beheaded, he completed his 



220 JULY. 

martyrdom.&mdash;At Barcelona, in Spain, during the 
persecution of Diocletian and under the governor 
Dacian, the birthday of the holy martyr Cucuphas. 
After overcoming many torments, he was struck 
with the sword, and thus went triumphantly to 
heaven.&mdash;In Palestine, St. Paul, a martyr, in the 
persecution of Maximian Galerius, and under the 
governor Firmilian. He was condemned to capital 
punishment, but having obtained a short respite to 
pray, he besought God with all his heart, first for his 
own countrymen, then for the Jews and the Gentiles, 
that they might embrace the true faith, next for the 
multitude of the spectators, and finally for the judge 
who had condemned him and the executioner that 
was to strike him; after which he received the crown 
of martyrdom by being beheaded.&mdash;In the same 
country, St. Valentina, a virgin, who was led to an 
altar to offer sacrifice, but overturning it with her 
foot, she was cruelly tortured, and being cast into the 
fire with another virgin, her companion, she went to 
her spouse.&mdash;At Forcono, in Abruzzo, the holy mar- 
tyrs Florentius and Felix, natives of Sipontum.&mdash;At 
Cordova, St. Theodemirus, monk and martyr.&mdash;At 
Treves, St. Magnericus, bishop and confessor. 



JULY. 221 



Cfte Ctoemp'0itft Dap of 



FT1HE departure out of this life of St. Anne, mother 
- of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Mother of God.&mdash;At 
Philippi, in Macedonia, the birthday of St. Erastus, 
who was appointed bishop of that place by the 
blessed apostle Paul, and there crowned with mar- 
tyrdom.&mdash;At Home, on the Latin road, the holy mar- 
tyrs Symphronius, Olympius, Theodulus, and Exu- 
peria, who (as we read in the Acts of pope St. Ste- 
phen) were burnt alive, and thus obtained the palm 
of martyrdom.&mdash;At Porto, St. Hyacinth, martyr, 
who was first thrown into the fire, and then precipi- 
tated into a stream without being injured. After- 
wards, under the emperor Trajan, being struck with 
the sword by the ex-consul Leontius, he terminated 
his life. His body was buried by the matron Julia, 
on her own estate near Rome.&mdash;Also, at Borne, St. 
Pastor, priest. His name is used to designate a 
cardinal's title in the church of St. Pudentiana, on 
the Viminal hill.&mdash;At Verona, St. Valens, bishop 
and confessor.&mdash;In the monastery of St. Benedict, 
near Mantua, St. Simeon, monk and hermit, who 
was renowned for many miracles, and at an advanced 
age rested in the Lord. 



222 JULY. 

Cfte Ctoemp'0etoem|) Dap of 

AT Nicomedia, the martyrdom of St. Pantaleon, a 
^ physician. For the faith of Christ he was appre- 
hended by the emperor Maximian, subjected to the 
torture and burned with torches, during which tor- 
ments he was comforted by an apparition of our 
Lord. He ended his martyrdom by a stroke of the 
sword.&mdash;In the same city, St. Hermolaus, priest, by 
whose instructions blessed Pantaleon was converted 
to the faith.&mdash;Also, the Saints Hermippus and Her- 
mocrates, brothers. After many sufferings borne 
for the confession of Christ, they were condemned 
to capital punishment by the same Maximian.&mdash;At 
Nola, the holy martyrs Felix, Julia and Jucunda. 
At Biseglia, in Apulia, the holy martyrs Maurus, 
bishop, Pantaleemon, and Sergius, who suffered un- 
der Trajan.&mdash;In the country of the Homerites (Ara- 
bia), the commemoration of the holy martyrs, who 
were delivered to the flames for faith of Christ, un- 
der the tyrant Dunaan.&mdash;At Cordova, in Spain, 
during the persecution of the Arabs, the holy mar- 
tyrs George, deacon, Felix, Aurelius, Natalia, and 
Liliosa.&mdash;At Ephesus, the birthday of the seven holy 
sleepers, Maximian, Malchus, Martinian, Denis, 
John, Serapion, and Constantine.&mdash;At Auxerre, the 
demise of blessed AEtherius, bishop and confessor. 
At Constantinople, blessed Anthusa, a virgin. Un- 
der Constantine Copronymus, after being scourged 
and banished, she rested in the Lord. 



JULY. 223 



Cfje Ctoemp*eigf)ti) Dap of 3[ulp, 

AT Borne, the martyrdom of St. Victor, pope and 
^ martyr.&mdash;Also, at Home, St.&mdash;Innocent, pope and 
confessor.&mdash;At Milan, the birthday of the holy mar- 
tyrs Nazarius and a boy named Celsus. While the 
persecution excited by Nero was raging, they were 
beheaded by Anolinus, after long sufferings and 
afflictions endured in prison.&mdash;In Thebais, in Egypt, 
the commemoration of many holy martyrs who suf- 
fered in the persecution of Decius and Valerian.&mdash;At 
this time, when Christians sought death by the sword 
for the name of Christ, the crafty enemy devised 
certain slow torments to put them to death, wishing 
much more to kill their souls rather than their 
bodies. One of these Christians, after suffering the , 
torture of the rack, of hot metal plates and of seeth- 
ing oil, was smeared with honey and exposed, in the 
broiling heat of the sun, with his hands tied behind 
him, to the stings of wasps and flies. Another was 
bound and laid among flowers, when a shameless 
woman approached him with the intention of excit- 
ing his passions, but he bit off his tongue and spat 
it in her face.&mdash;At Ancyra, in Galatia, the holy mar- 
tyr Eustathius. After various torments, he was 
plunged into a river, but being delivered by an angel, 
was finally called to his reward by a dove coming 
from heaven.&mdash;At Miletus, in the time of the em- 
peror Licinius, the holy martyr Acatius, who com- 



224 JULY. 

pleted his martyrdom by having his head struck off, 
after having undergone different torments and been 
thrown into a furnace, from which he came out unin- 
jured through the assistance of God.&mdash;In Bretagne, 
St. Sampson, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Lyons, St. 
Peregrinus, priest, whose happiness in heaven is at- 
tested by glorious miracles. 



Cfte Ctoentpnfmf) Dap of 

AT Tarascon, in France, St. Martha, virgin, the 
^ hostess of our Saviour, and sister of blessed Mary 
Magdalen and St. Lazarus.&mdash;At Rome, on the Aure- 
lian road, St. Felix II., pope and martyr. Being 
expelled from his See by the Arian emperor Constan- 
tius for defending the Catholic faith, and being put 
to the sword privately at Cera, in Tuscany, he died 
gloriously. His body was taken away from that 
place by clerics, and buried on the Aurelian road. 
It was afterwards brought to the church of the 
Saints Cosmas and Damian, where, under the 
Sovereign Pontiff, Gregory XIII., it was found be- 
neath the altar with the relics of the holy martyrs 
Mark, Marcellian, and Tranquillinus, and with these 
was put back in the same place on the 31st of July. 
In the same altar were also found the bodies of the 
holy martyrs Abundius, priest, and Abundantius, 
deacon, which were shortly after solemnly trans- 



JULY. 225 

ferred to the church of the Society of Jesus, on the 
eve of their festival.&mdash;Also at Rome, on the road to 
Porto, the holy martyrs Simplicius, Faustinus, and 
Beatrix, in the time of the emperor Diocletian. The 
first two, after being subjected to many different tor- 
ments, were condemned to suffer capital punishment ; 
Beatrix, their sister, was smothered in prison. 
Again, at Rome, the holy martyrs Lucilla and Flora, 
virgins, Eugenius, Antoninus, Theodore, and eigh- 
teen companions, who underwent martyrdom in the 
reign of the emperor Gallienus.&mdash;At Gangra, in Pa- 
phlagonia, St. Callinicus, martyr, who was scourged 
with iron rods, and given over to other torments. 
Being finally cast into a furnace, he gave up his soul 
to God.&mdash;In Norway, St. Olaf, king and martyr. 
At Troyes, in France, St. Lupus, bishop and con- 
fessor, who went with blessed Germanus to England 
to combat the Pelagian heresy, and by assiduous 
prayer defended the city of Troyes from the furor of 
Attila, who was devastating all France.&mdash;At length, 
having religiously discharged the functions of the 
priesthood for fifty-two years, he rested in peace. 
At St. Brieuc, St. William, bishop and confessor. 
Also, the demise of blessed Prosper, bishop of Or- 
leans.&mdash;At Todi, St. Faustinus, confessor.&mdash;At 
Mumia, St. Seraphina. 



226 JULY. 



Cfie CftfrtietJ) Dap of 3fitlp, 

AT Rome, in the reign of Decius, the holy Persian 
" martyrs Abdon and Sennen, who were bound 
with chains, brought to Rome, scourged with leaded 
whips for the faith of Christ, and then put to the 
sword.&mdash;At Tuberbum Lucernarium, in Africa, the 
holy virgins and martyrs Maxima, Donatilla, and Se- 
cunda. The first two, in the persecution of Valerian 
and Gallienus, were forced to drink vinegar and gall, 
then scourged most severely, and stretched on the 
rack, burned on the gridiron, rubbed over with lime, 
afterwards exposed to the beasts with the virgin 
Secunda, twelve years old, but being untouched by 
them, they were finally beheaded.&mdash;At Assisi, in 
Umbria, St. Rufinus, martyr.&mdash;At Csesarea, in Cap- 
padocia, St. Julitta, martyr. As she sought to re- 
cover through the courts the restitution of goods 
seized by an influential personage, the latter ob- 
jected that, being a Christian, her cause could not be 
pleaded. The judge commanded her to offer sacrifice 
to the idols, that she might be heard. With great 
firmness, she refused, and being thrown into the 
fire, yielded her spirit to God, though her body re- 
mained uninjured by the flames. St. Basil the Great 
has proclaimed her praise in an excellent eulogy. 
At Auxerre, St. Ursus, bishop and confessor. 



JULY. 227 



Cfte Cftitt?^ttr0t Dap of 3fitlp, 

AT Rome, the birthday of St. Ignatius, confessor, 
" founder of the Society of Jesus, renowned for 
sanctity and miracles, and most zealous for propa- 
gating the Catholic religion in all parts of the 
world.&mdash;At Csesarea, the martyrdom of the blessed 
martyr Fabius. As he refused to carry the ensign 
of the governor of the province, he was thrown into 
prison for some days, and as he persisted twice in 
confessing Christ when brought before the judge, 
he was condemned to capital punishment.&mdash;At Milan, 
during the persecution of Antoninus, St. Calimerius, 
bishop and martyr, who was arrested, covered with 
wounds, and pierced through the neck with a sword. 
He terminated his martyrdom by being precipitated 
into a well.&mdash;At Synnada, in Phrygia, the holy mar- 
tyrs Democritus, Secundus and Denis.&mdash;In Syria, 
three hundred and fifty monks, who became martyrs 
by being slain by the heretics for defending the 
Council of Chalcedon.&mdash;At Ravenna, the departure 
from this world of St. Germanus, bishop of Auxerre, 
a man most renowned for his birth, faith, learning, 
and glorious miracles, who freed England completely 
from the heretical doctrines of the Pelagians.&mdash;At 
Tagaste, in Africa, St. Firmus, bishop, illustrious by 
a glorious confession of the faith.&mdash;At Siena, in Tus- 
cany, the birthday of blessed John Colombini. 
founder of the Order of the Jesuati, renowned for 
sanctity and miracles. 




AUGUST. 




Cfte jFfwt Dap of 



|T ROME, on Mount Esquiline, the dedication 
of the church of St. Peter in Chains.&mdash;At 
Antioch, the martyrdom of the seven holy 
brothers, the Machabees, and their mother, 
who suffered under king Antiochus Epiphanes. Their 
relics were transferred to Borne, and placed in the 
church of St. Peter, just mentioned.&mdash;At Eonie, the 
holy virgins Faith, Hope and Charity, who won the 
crown of martyrdom under the emperor Adrian. 
Also, at Rome, on the Latin road, the holy martyrs 
Bonus, a priest, Faustus and Maurus, with nine 
others, mentioned in the Acts of pope St. Stephen. 
At Philadelphia, in Arabia, the holy martyrs Cyril, 
Aquila, Peter, Domitian, Rufus, and Menander, 
crowned on the same day.&mdash;At Pergen, in Pam- 
phylia, the holy martyrs Leontius,&mdash;Attius, Alexan- 
der, and six husbandmen, who were beheaded in the 
persecution of Diocletian, under the governor Fla- 
vian.&mdash;At Gerona, in Spain, the birthday of the holy 
martyr Felix. After enduring various torments, 
by order of Dacian, he was cut with knives until he 



AUGUST. 229 

gave his undaunted soul to Christ.&mdash;At Vercelli, St. 
Eusebius, bishop and martyr, who for the confession 
of the Catholic faith, was banished to Scythopolis 
and thence to Cappadocia by the emperor Constan- 
tius. Afterwards returning to his church, he suf- 
fered martyrdom in the persecution of the Arians. 
His feast is kept on the 16th of December.&mdash;In the 
diocese of Paris, St. Justin, martyr.&mdash;At Vienne, St. 
Verus, bishop.&mdash;At Winchester, in England, St. Eth- 
elwold, bishop.&mdash;In the territory of Liswin, St. Ne- 
mesius, confessor. 



Cfte SeconD Dap of 



IT Nocera-de-Pagani, St. Alphonsus Maria de Lig- 
-" uori, bishop of St. Agatha of the Goths, and foun- 
der of the Congregation of the Most Holy Redeemer, 
distinguished by his zeal for the salvation of souls, 
by his writings, his preaching, and his example. He 
was inscribed on the calendar of the saints by pope 
Gregory XVI., in the year 1839, the fifty-second after 
his happy death, and was declared Doctor of the 
Universal Church by Pius IX., according to a decree 
of the Sacred Congregation of Rites.&mdash;At Rome, in 
the cemetery of Callistus, the birthday of St. Ste- 
phen, pope and martyr.&mdash;In the persecution of Vale- 
rian, the soldiers suddenly entered whilst he was 
saying Mass, but he remained before the altar and 



230 AUGUST. 

concluded the sacred mysteries with intrepidity, and 
was beheaded on his throne.&mdash;At Nicssa, in Bithynia, 
the martyrdom of St. Theodota with her three sons. 
The eldest, named Evodius, confessing Christ with 
confidence, was first beaten with rods, by order of 
Nicetius, ex-consul of Bithynia, and then the mother, 
with all her sons, was consumed by fire.&mdash;In Africa, 
St. Rutilius, martyr. He had frequently secured 
safety from the perils of persecution by flight, and 
sometimes even by means of money, but at last, 
being unexpectedly apprehended, he was led to the 
governor, and subjected to many tortures. After- 
wards he was cast into the fire, and thus merited the 
glorious crown of martyrdom.&mdash;At Padua, St. Maxi- 
mus, bishop of that city, who ended his blessed life 
in peace, with a reputation for miracles. 



Cfte CftftD Dap of 

IT Jerusalem, the finding of the body of most 
blessed Stephen, first martyr, and of the Saints 
Gamaliel, Nicodemus, and Abibo, through a divine 
revelation made to the priest Lucian, in the time of 
the emperor Honorius.&mdash;At Constantinople, the 
birthday of St. Hermellus, martyr.&mdash;In the East 
Indies, near Persia, the martyrdom of holy monks 
and other Christians who were put to death after 
suffering various torments, during the persecution 



AUGUST. 231 

of the Church of God by king Abenner.&mdash;At Naples, 
in Campania, St. Aspren, bishop, who was cured of 
a sickness by the apostle St. Peter, and after being 
baptized, was made bishop of that city.&mdash;At Autun, 
the demise of St. Euphronius, bishop and confessor. 
At Anagni, St. Peter, bishop, who rested in the 
Lord after gaining great renown for monastical ob- 
servance and for pastoral vigilance.&mdash;At Philippi, in 
Macedonia, St. Lydia, a dealer in purple, who was 
the first to believe in the Gospel when the apostle 
St. Paul preached in that city.&mdash;At Beroea, in Syria, 
the holy women Marana and Cyra. 



A 



Cfte Jfourtf) Dap of 3ugu0t* 

T Bologna, St. Dominic, confessor, founder of the 
Order of Friars Preachers, most renowned for 
sanctity and learning. He preserved his chastity 
unsullied to the end of his life, and by his great 
merits raised three persons from the dead. After 
having repressed heresies by his preaching, and in- 
structed many in the religious and godly life, he 
rested in peace on the 6th of this month. His feast, 
however, is celebrated on this day, by decree of pope 
Paul IV.&mdash;At Thessalonica, the birthday of blessed 
Aristarchus, disciple and inseparable companion of 
the apostle St. Paul, who writes to the Colossians: 
"My fellow-prisoner Aristarchus salutes you." He 



232 AUGUST. 

was consecrated bishop of the Thessalonians by the 
same apostle, and after long sufferings under Nero, 
crowned by Christ, rested in peace.&mdash;At Rome, on 
the Latin road, the martyrdom of blessed Tertul- 
linus, priest and martyr, in the time of emperor Va- 
lerian. After being cruelly beaten with rods, after 
having his sides burned, his mouth shattered; after 
being stretched on the rack and scourged with whips, 
he completed his martyrdom by being beheaded.&mdash;At 
Constantinople, the holy martyr Eleutherius, of the 
senatorial rank, who was put to the sword for Christ, 
in the persecution of Maximian.&mdash;In Persia, in the 
time of king Sapor, the holy martyr la and her com- 
panions, who, with nine thousand Christian cap- 
tives, underwent martyrdom after having been sub- 
jected to various torments.&mdash;At Cologne, St. Pro- 
tasius, martyr.&mdash;At Verona, St. Agabius, bishop and 
confessor.&mdash;At Tours, St. Euphronius, bishop.&mdash;At 
Borne, St. Perpetua, who was baptized by the blessed 
apostle Peter. She converted to the faith her son 
Nazarius and her husband Africanus, buried the re- 
mains of many holy martyrs, and finally went to our 
Lord endowed with an abundance of merit. 



C6e Jfiftft Dap of 

AT Home, on Mount Esquiline, the dedication of 
" the church of St. Mary of the Snows.&mdash;Also at 
Rome, during the persecution of Diocletian, the 



AUGUST. 233 

martyrdom of twenty-three holy martyrs, who were 
beheaded on the Salarian road, and buried at the 
foot of Cucumer hill.&mdash;At Augsburg, the birthday 
of St. Afra, martyr. After being converted from 
Paganism by the instructions of bishop St. Narcis- 
sus, and being baptized with all her household, she 
was delivered to the flames for the confession of 
Christ.&mdash;At Ascoli, in the Marches, St. Emygdins, 
bishop and martyr, who was consecrated bishop by 
pope St. Marcel lus, and sent thither to preach the 
Gospel. He received the crown of martyrdom for 
the confession of Christ, under the emperor Dio- 
cletian.&mdash;At Antioch, St. Eusignius, a soldier, who 
at the age of one hundred and ten years, because 
he reproached Julian the Apostate for forsaking 
the faith of Constantine the Great, under whom he 
had served, and for having degenerated from his 
ancestors' piety, was decapitated by his command. 
Also, the holy martyrs Cantidius, Cantidian, and 
Sobel, Egyptians.&mdash;At Chalons, in France, St. 
Memmius, a Roman citizen, who, being consecrated 
bishop of that city by St. Peter, brought to the 
truth of the Gospel the people committed to his 
care.&mdash;At Autun, blessed Cassian, bishop.&mdash;At 
Teano, St. Paris, bishop.&mdash;In England, St. Oswald, 
king, whose life is related by Venerable Bede. 
The same day, St. Nonna, mother of blessed Gregory 
Nazianzen. 



284 AUGUST. 



C&e >fetf) Dap of 

AN Mount Thabor, the transfiguration of our Lord 
^ Jesus Christ.&mdash;At Home, on the Appian road, 
in the cemetery of Callistus, the birthday of blessed 
Xystus II., pope and martyr, who received the 
crown of martyrdom in the persecution of Valerian, 
by being put to the sword.-&mdash;Also, the holy martyrs 
Felicissimus and Agapitus, deacons of blessed 
Xystus; Januarius, Magnus, Vincent, and Stephen, 
subdeacons, all of whom were beheaded with him, 
and buried in the cemetery of Praetextatus. With 
them suffered also blessed Quartus, as is related 
by St. Cyprian.&mdash;At Burgos, in Spain, in the mon- 
astery of St. Peter of Cardegna, of the Order of St. 
Benedict, two hundred monks, with their abbot 
Stephen, who were put to death for the faith of 
Christ by the Saracens, and buried in the monas- 
tery by the Christians.&mdash;At Alcala, in Spain, the 
holy martyrs Justus and Pastor, brothers. While 
they were yet schoolboys, they threw aside their 
books in school, and spontaneously ran to martyr- 
dom. By order of the governor Dacian, they were 
arrested, beaten with rods, and as they exhorted 
each other to constancy, were led out of the city, 
and had their throats cut by the executioner.&mdash;At 
Rome, St. Hormisdas, pope and confessor.&mdash;At 
Amida, St. James, a hermit renowned for miracles. 



AUGUST. 235 



Cfte ^etoentft Dap of 

AT Naples, in Campania, St. Cajetan of Tiene, 
" confessor, founder of the Theatines, who, through 
singular confidence in God, made his disciples 
practise the primitive mode of life of the Apostles. 
Being renowned for miracles, he was ranked among 
the saints by Clement X.&mdash;At Arezzo, in Tuscany, 
the birthday of St. Donatus, bishop and martyr, who 
among other miraculous deeds, made whole again 
by his prayers (as is related by the blessed pope 
Gregory), a sacred chalice which had been broken 
by Pagans. Being apprehended by the imperial 
officer Quadratian, in the persecution of Julian the 
Apostate, and refusing to sacrifice to idols, he was 
struck with the sword, and thus consummated his 
martyrdom. With him suffered also the blessed 
monk Hilarinus, whose feast is celebrated on the 
16th of July, when his body was taken to Ostia.&mdash;At 
Rome, the holy martyrs Peter and Julian, with 
eighteen others.&mdash;At Milan, St. Faustus, a soldier, 
who obtained the palm of martyrdom after many 
combats, in the time of Aurelius Commodus.&mdash;At 
Coino, the passion of the holy martyrs Carpophorus, 
Exanthus, Cassius, Severinus, Secundus and Licin- 
ius, who were beheaded for the confession of Christ. 
At Nisibis, in Mesopotamia, St.Dometius, a Persian 
monk, who was stoned to death with two of his 
disciples, under Julian the Apostate.&mdash;At Rouen, 
the holy bishop St. Victricius. Whilst he was yet a 



236 AUGUST. 

soldier under Julian, he threw away his military 
belt for Christ, and after being subjected by the tri- 
bune to many torments, was condemned to capital 
punishment. But the executioner who had been 
sent to put him to death being struck blind, and the 
confessor's chains being loosened, he made his es- 
cape. Afterwards being made bishop, by preaching 
the word of God, he brought to the faith of Christ 
the barbarous people of Belgic Gaul, and finally died 
a confessor in peace.&mdash;At Chalons, in France, St. 
Donation, bishop.&mdash;At Messina, in Sicily, St. Albert, 
confessor, of the Order of Carmelites, renowned for 
miracles. 



C&e OEigfttj) Dap of 

A T Rome, the holy martyrs Cyriacus, deacon, 
-" Largus, and Smaragdus, with twenty others, 
who suffered on the 16th of March, in the perse- 
cution of Diocletian and Maximian. Their bodies 
were buried on the Salarian road by the priest 
John, but were on this day translated by pope St. 
Marcellus to the estate of Lucina, on the Ostian 
way. Afterwards they were brought to Rome, and 
placed in the Church of St. Mary in Via Lata (the 
title of a cardinal-deacon).&mdash;At Anzarba, in Cilicia, 
St. Marinus, an aged man, who was scourged, 
racked, and lacerated, and died by being exposed 
to wild beasts, in the time of the emperor Diocle- 



AUGUST. 237 

tian and the governor Lysias.&mdash;Also, the holy mar- 
tyrs Eleutherius and Leonides, who underwent mar- 
trydom by fire.&mdash;In Persia, St. Hormisdas, a martyr, 
under king Sapor.&mdash;At Cyzicum, in Hellespont, St. 
^Emilian, bishop, who ended his life in exile after 
having suffered much from the emperor Leo for the 
worship of holy images.&mdash;In Crete, St. Myron, a 
bishop renowned for miracles.&mdash;At Vienne, in 
France, St. Severus, priest and confessor, who un- 
dertook a painful journey from&mdash;India in order to 
preach the Gospel in that city, and converted a 
great number of Pagans to the faith of Christ by his 
labors and miracles. 



Cfte Jl3imj) Dap of august, 

mHE vigil of St. Lawrence, martyr.&mdash;At Rome, 
St. Romanus, soldier, who was moved by the 
torments of blessed Lawrence to ask for baptism 
from him. He was immediately prosecuted, 
scourged, and finally beheaded.&mdash;In Tuscany, the 
birthday of the holy martyrs Secundian, Marcel- 
lian, and Verian.&mdash;In the time of Decius, they were 
scourged by the ex-consul Promotus, then racked 
and torn with iron hooks. Being burned with fire 
applied to their sides, they merited the triumphant 
palm of martyrdom by having their heads struck 
off.&mdash;At Verona, the holy martyrs Firmus and Rusti- 



238 AUGUST. 

cus, in the time of the emperor Maximian.&mdash;In 
Africa, the commemoration of many holy martyrs, 
during the persecution of Valerian. Being exhorted 
by St. Numidicus, they obtained the palm of martyr- 
dom by being cast into the fire, but Numidicus, 
although thrown into the flames with the others and 
overwhelmed with stones, was nevertheless taken 
out by his daughter. Found half dead, he was re- 
stored and deserved afterwards by his virtue to be 
made priest of the church of Carthage by blessed 
Cyprian.&mdash;At Constantinople, the holy martyrs 
Julian, Marcian, and eight others. For having set 
up the image of our Saviour on the brazen gate, 
they were exposed to many torments, and then be- 
headed by order of the impious emperor Leo.&mdash;At 
Chalons, in France, St. Domitian, bishop and con- 
fessor. 



C&e Centft Dap of 

IT Rome, on the Tiburtine road, the birthday of 
** the blessed archdeacon Lawrence, a martyr 
during the persecution of Valerian. After much 
suffering from imprisonment, from scourging with 
whips set with iron or lead, from hot metal plates, 
he at last completed his martyrdom by being slowly 
consumed on an iron instrument made in the form 
of a gridiron. His body was buried by blessed 
Hippolytus and the priest Justin in the cemetery 



AUGUST. 239 

of Cyriaca, in the Veran field.&mdash;Also, at Rome, the 
martyrdom of one hundred and sixty-five holy 
martyrs, who were soldiers under the emperor 
Aurelian.&mdash;At Bergamo, St. Asteria, virgin and 
martyr, in the persecution of the emperors Diocle- 
tian and Maximian.&mdash;At Alexandria, the commemor- 
ation of the holy martyrs, in the persecution of 
Valerian, under the governor ^Emilian. They were 
a long time subjected to various excruciating tor- 
ments, and won the crown of martyrdom by different 
kinds of deaths.&mdash;At Carthage, the holy virgins and 
martyrs Bassa, Paula, and Agathonica.&mdash;At Rome, 
the holy confessor Deusdedit, a laboring man, who 
gave to the poor every Saturday what he had earned 
during the week.&mdash;In Spain, the Apparition of the 
Blessed Virgin Mary, under the name of our Lady 
of Ransom, foundress of the Order for the Redemp- 
tion of Captives. 



Cfte (Eletientft Dap of 9ugu0t 

A T Rome, between the two laurels situated about 
** three miles from the city, the birthday of St. 
Tiburtius, martyr, under the judge Fabian, in the 
persecution of Diocletian. After he hard walked 
barefoot on burning coals and confessed Christ 
with increased constancy, he was put to the sword. 
Also, at Rome, the holy virgin Susanna, a woman 



240 AUGUST. 

of noble race, and niece of the blessed Pontiff 
Caius. She merited the palm of martyrdom by 
being beheaded in the time of Diocletian.&mdash;At 
Gomana, in Pontus, St. Alexander, bishop, sur- 
named Carbonarius, who added to a consummate 
knowledge of philosophy an eminent degree of 
Christian humility. He was promoted to the See 
of that church by St. Gregory Thaumaturgus, and 
became illustrious, not only by preaching, but also 
by suffering martyrdom by fire. The same day, 
the martyrdom of St. Rufinus, bishop of the Marsi, 
and his companions, under the emperor Maximinus. 
At Evreux, in France, St. Taurinus, bishop. Be- 
ing made bishop of that city by the blessed pope 
Clement, he propagated the Christian faith by the 
preaching of the Gospel, and the many labors he 
sustained for it. Celebrated for glorious miracles, 
he slept in the Lord.&mdash;At Cambrai, in France, St. 
Gaugericus, bishop and confessor.&mdash;In the province 
of Valeria, St. Equitius, abbot, whose sanctity is 
attested by the blessed pope Gregory.&mdash;At Todi, St. 
Digna, virgin. 



Cfte Ctoelftft Dap of 



A T Assisi, in Umbria, St. Clare, virgin, the first 
" of the poor women of the Order of Minorites. 
Being celebrated for holiness of life and miracles, 
she was placed among holy virgins by Alexander 



AUGUST. 241 

IV.&mdash;At Catania, in Sicily, the birthday of St. 
Euplius, deacon, under the emperors Diocletian 
and Maximian. He was a long time tortured for 
the confession of the Lord, and finally obtained the 
palm of martyrdom by being put to the sword. 
At Augsburg, St. Hilaria, mother of the blessed 
martyr Afra. Because she watched at the sepul- 
chre of her daughter, she was cast into the fire for 
the faith of Christ, together with her maid-servants 
Digna, Euprepia, and Eunomia. On the same day 
there suffered also in that city Quiriacus, Largius, 
Crescentian, Nimmia, and Juliana, with twenty 
others.&mdash;In Syria, the holy martyrs Macarius and 
Julian.&mdash;At Nicomedia, the holy martyrs, the count 
Anicetus and his brother Photinus, with many others, 
under the emperor Diocletian.&mdash;At Faleria, in 
Tuscany, the Saints Gracilian, and Felicissima, 
virgin, who, for the confession of the faith, had 
their mouths bruised with stones, and being after- 
wards struck with the sword, received the palm of 
martyrdom. The same day, the holy martyrs Por- 
carius, abbot of the monastery of Lerins, and five 
hundred monks, who were slain for the Catholic 
faith by barbarians, and were thus crowned with 
martyrdom.&mdash;At Milan, the demise of St. Eusebius, 
bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Brescia, St. Herculanus, 
bishop. 



10 



242 



AUGUST. 



Cf)e Cftirteent!) Dap of 

A T Rome, blessed Hippolytus, martyr, who glorious- 
-" ly confessed the faith, under the emperor Valerian 
After enduring other torments, he was tied by the 
feet to the necks of wild horses, and being cruelly 
dragged through briars and brambles, and having all 
his body lacerated, he yielded up his spirit. On the 
same day, suffered also blessed Concordia, his nurse, 
who being scourged in his presence with leaded 
whips, went to our Lord ; and nineteen others of his 
house, who were beheaded beyond the Tiburtine gate, 
and buried with him in the Veran field.&mdash;At Imola, 
the birthday of St. Cassian, martyr. As he refused 
to worship idols, the persecutor called the boys 
whom the saint taught and who hated him, giving 
them leave to kill him. The torment suffered by the 
martyr was the more grievous, as the hand which 
inflicted it, by reason of its weakness, rendered 
death more tardy.&mdash;At Todi, St. Cassian, bishop and 
martyr, under the emperor Diocletian.&mdash;At Burgos, 
in Spain, the Saints Centolla and Helena, martyrs. 
At Constantinople, St. Maximus, a monk, dis- 
tinguished for learning and for zeal for Catholic 
truth. Combating valiantly the Monothelites, he 
had his hands and tongue torn from him by the 
heretical emperor Constans, and was banished to 
Chersonesus, where he breathed his last.&mdash;At this 
time, two of his disciples, both called Anastasius, 
and many others endured diverse torments and the 



AUGUST. 243 

hardships of exile.&mdash;In Germany, St. Wigbert, priest 
and confessor.&mdash;At Rome, St. John Berchinans, a 
scholastic of the Society of Jesus, illustrious for his 
innocence and for his fidelity to the rules of the re- 
ligious life. He was canonized by Leo XIII.&mdash;At 
Poitiers, St. Radegundes, queen, whose life was re- 
nowned for miracles and virtues. 



Cfte jFourteemt) Dag of August* 

fTIHE vigil of the Assumption of the blessed Vir- 
- gin Mary.&mdash;At Rome, the birthday of the blessed 
priest Eusebius, who for the defense of the Catholic 
faith was shut up in a room of his own house by the 
Arian emperor Cons tan tius, where constantly per- 
severing in prayer for seven months, he rested in 
peace. His body was removed by the priests Greg- 
ory and Orosius, and buried in the cemetery of 
Callistus, on the Appian road.&mdash;In Dalmatia, St. 
Ursicius, a martyr, who was beheaded for Christ, 
after suffering various torments, under the emperor 
Maximian, and the governor Aristides.&mdash;In Africa, 
St. Demetrius, martyr.&mdash;At Apamea, in Syria, St. 
Marcellus, bishop and martyr, who was killed by the 
exasperated Gentiles, for having pulled down a 
temple of Jupiter.&mdash;At Todi, St. Callistus, bishop 
and martyr.&mdash;In the island of ^Egina, St.&mdash;Athanasia, 
widow, celebrated for monastical observance, and the 
gift of miracles. 



244 AUGUST. 



&e JFtfteentJ) Dap of 

Assumption of the most holy Virgin Mary, 
Mother of God.&mdash;At Rome, on the Appian 
way, St. Tharsicius, acolyte. The Pagans accosted 
him as he was carrying the sacrament of Christ's 
body, and began to inquire what it was. But 
he judged it an unworthy thing to cast pearls be- 
fore swine. They therefore beat him with sticks 
and stones until he expired. The sacrilegious 
searchers examined his body, but found no vestige 
of the sacrament of Christ, either in his hands or 
in his clothes. The Christians took up the body of 
the martyr, and buried it reverently in the cemetery 
of Callistus.&mdash;At Tagasta, in Africa, St. Alipius, 
bishop, who was the disciple of blessed Augustine, 
and the companion of his conversion, his colleague 
in the pastoral charge, his valiant fellow-soldier in 
combating heretics, and finally his partner in the 
glory of heaven.&mdash;At Soissons, in France, St. Arnulf, 
bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Alba, in Hungary, St. 
Stephen, king of the Hungarians, whose feast is cele- 
brated on the 2d of September.&mdash;At Rome, St. 
Stanislaus Kostka, a native of Poland, confessor, of 
the Society of Jesus, who being made perfect in a 
short space, fulfilled a long time by the angelical 
innocence of his life. He was inscribed on the list 
of the saints by the Sovereign Pontiff,Benedict XIII. 



AUGUST. 245 



Steteentl) Dap of august* 

JOACHIM, father of the most blessed Virgin 
Mary, whose birthday is the 20th of March.&mdash;At 
Rome, St. Titus, deacon, who, when the city was 
taken by the Goths, was put to death by a barbarous 
tribune, whilst distributing money to the poor.&mdash;At 
Nicaea, in Bithynia, St. Diomedes, physician, who 
underwent martyrdom for the faith of Christ by be- 
ing beheaded, during the persecution of Diocletian. 
Also, thirty -three holy martyrs.&mdash;At Ferentino, in 
Campania, St. Ambrose, centurion.&mdash;In the perse- 
cution of Diocletian, he was subjected to different 
kinds of tortures, and finally passing through fire 
without injury, was cast into the water, and thus 
reached the place of eternal rest.&mdash;At Milan, the 
demise of St. Simplician, bishop, renowned by the 
testimony given of him by St. Ambrose and St. 
Augustine.&mdash;At Auxerre, St. Eleutherius, bishop. 
At Nicomedia, St. Arsacius, confessor. Under the 
persecutor Licinius, he left the military service, and 
leading a solitary life, became so famous for work- 
ing miracles, that we read of his expelling the 
demons and killing a huge dragon by his prayers. 
Finally he foretold the destruction of the city, and 
gave up his soul to God in prayer.&mdash;In France, near 
Montpelier, the demise of blessed Roch, confessor, 
who by the sign of the cross, delivered many cities 
of Italy from an epidemic. His body was after- 
wards transferred to Venice, and deposited with 



246 AUGUST. 

the greatest honors in the church dedicated under 
his invocation.&mdash;At Home, St. Serena, who had been 
the wife of the emperor Diocletian. 



C&e >etiemeem|) Dap of 9ugu0t. 

FT! HE Octave of St. Lawrence, martyr.&mdash;At Cracow, 
* in Poland, St. Hyacinth, confessor, of the Order of 
Preachers, who slept in the Lord on the 16th of this 
month.&mdash;At Carthage, in Africa, the holy martyrs Li- 
beratus, abbot, Boniface, deacon, Servus and Rusti- 
cus, subdeacons, Rogatus and Septimus, monks, and 
Maximus, a young child.&mdash;In the persecution of the 
Vandals, under king Hunneric, they were subjected 
to various unheard-of torments for the confession of 
the Catholic faith and the defense of one baptism. 
Finally, being nailed to the wood wherewith they 
were to be burned, as the fire was always put out 
miraculously whenever kindled, they w r ere struck 
with iron bars by order of the tyrant until their 
brains were dashed out. Thus they terminated the 
glorious series of their combats, and were crowned 
by our Lord.&mdash;At Csesarea, in Cappadocia, the birth- 
day of St. Mamas, martyr, who, from childhood to 
old age, endured a long martyrdom, and at length 
ended it happily in the reign of Aurelian, under the 
governor Alexander. He has been highly praised by 
the holy fathers Basil and Gregory Nazianzen.&mdash;In 
Achaia, St. Myron, priest and martyr, who was be- 



AUGUST. 247 

headed at Cyzicum, after undergoing many torments, 
in the time of the emperor Decius and the governor 
Antipater.&mdash;At Nicomedia, the holy martyrs Stra- 
ton, Philip and Eutychian, who were condemned to 
the beasts, but being uninjured by them, ended their 
martyrdom by fire.&mdash;At Teramo, St. Anastasius, 
bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Ptolemais, in Palestine, 
the holy martyrs Paul, and his sister Juliana, who 
suffered under Valerian. 



Cj)e OEigfiteemf) Dap of august* 

A T Palestrina, the birthday of the holy martyr 
" Agapitus. Although only fifteen years of age, 
as he was fervent in the love of Christ, he was 
arrested by order of the emperor Aurelian, and 
scourged a long time. Afterwards, under the pre- 
fect Antiochus, he endured more severe torments, 
and being delivered to the lions by the emperor's 
order without receiving any injury, he was finally 
struck with the sword, and thus merited his crown. 
At Rome, during the persecution of Diocletian, 
the blessed John and Crispus, priests, who chari- 
tably buried the bodies of many saints, and after- 
wards becoming partakers of their merits, they de- 
served the joys of eternal life.&mdash;In the same city, 
the holy martyrs Hernias, Serapion, and Polysenus. 
Being dragged through narrow, stony, and craggy 
places, they yielded up their souls to God.&mdash;In 



248 AUGUST. 

Dalmatia, the holy martyrs Florus and Laurus, 
stonecutters, who, after the martyrdom of Proculus 
and Maximus, their employers, were subjected to 
many torments under the governor Licion, and 
plunged into a deep well.&mdash;At Myra, in Lycia, the 
holy martyrs Leo and Juliana.&mdash;At Metz, in France, 
St. Firmin, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Rome, on the 
Lavican road, St. Helena, mother of the pious em- 
peror Constantine the Great, who was the first to 
set the example to other princes of protecting and 
extending the Church.&mdash;At Monte-Falo, in Umbria, 
blessed Clare, virgin, nun of the Order of Augustin- 
ians, in whom the mysteries of our Lord's passion 
were renewed, and are venerated with the greatest 
devotion. Pope Leo XIII. solemnly added her to the 
list of holy virgins. 



C6e jQineteemf) Dap of august, 

A T Rome, St. Julius, senator and martyr, who 
^ was delivered up to the judge Vitellius, and by 
him thrown into prison. By order of the emperor 
Commodus, he was beaten with rods until he ex- 
pired. His body was buried in the cemetery of 
Calepodius on the Aurelian road.&mdash;In Cilicia, the 
birthday of St. Andrew, tribune, and his military 
companions, who were converted to Christianity 
through a miraculous victory they had gained over 
the Persians. Being accused on this account, they 



AUGUST. 249 

were massacred in the defiles of Mount Taurus by 
the army of the governor Seleueus, under the em- 
peror Maximian.&mdash;In Palestine, St. Timothy, a 
martyr, in the persecution of Diocletian, under the 
governor Urbanus. After overcoming many tor- 
ments, he was consumed with a slow fire.&mdash;In the 
same country suffered also Thecla and Agapius. 
The former being exposed to the beasts, was torn 
to pieces by their teeth, and went to her spouse; 
but Agapius, after enduring many torments, was 
reserved for greater combats.&mdash;At Anagni, St. Mag- 
nus, bishop and martyr, who was put to death in 
the persecution of Decius.&mdash;At the castle of Brig- 
noles, in Provence, the demise of St. Louis, bishop 
of Toulouse, of the Order of Minorites, renowned for 
holiness of life and miracles. His body was taken 
thence to Marseilles, and buried with due honors in 
the church of the Friars Minor.&mdash;In the neighbor- 
hood of Sisteron, in France, blessed Donatus, priest 
and confessor. Being from his very infancy en- 
dowed with the grace of God in an extraordinary 
manner, he lived the life of an anchoret for many 
years, and after having been renowned for glorious 
miracles, went to Christ.&mdash;In the territory of 
Bourges, St. Marian, confessor.&mdash;At Mantua, St. 
Rufinus, confessor.&mdash;At Rome, blessed Urban II., 
pope, who followed in the footsteps of St. Gregory 
VII., in his zeal for learning and religion, and fired 
the crusaders with enthusiasm for the recovery of 
the holy places in Palestine from the power of the 



250 AUGUST. 

infidels. The veneration paid to him from time im- 
memorial Pope Leo XIII. approved and confirmed. 



Cfie Ctoemietf) Dap of 

TN the territory of Langres, the demise of St. 
Bernard, first abbot of Clairvaux, illustrious 
for virtues, learning, and miracles. He was de- 
clared Doctor of the universal church by the Sover- 
eign Pontiff, Pius VIII.&mdash;In Judea, the holy prophet 
Samuel, whose sacred relics (as is related by St. 
Jerome), were taken to Constantinople by the em- 
peror Arcadius, and deposited near Septimus. 
The same day, St. Lucius, senator, who was converted 
to the faith, on seeing the constancy of Theodore, 
bishop of Gyrene, during his martyrdom. He also 
converted the governor Dignian, with whom he set 
out for Cyprus, where, seeing other Christians 
crowned for the confession of the Lord, he offered 
himself voluntarily, and merited the same crown of 
martyrdom, by having his head struck off.&mdash;In 
Thrace, in the time of the governor Apellian, thirty- 
seven holy martyrs, who had their hands and feet 
cut off for the faith of Christ, and were cast into a 
burning furnace.&mdash;Also, the holy martyrs Severus, 
and the centurion Memnon, who, suffering the same 
kind of death, went victoriously to heaven.&mdash;At 
Cordova, during the persecution of the Arabs, the 
holy martyrs Leovigildus and Christopher, monks, 



AUGUST. 251 

who were thrust into prison for the defence of the 
Christian faith, and soon after, by being beheaded 
and cast into the fire, obtained the palm of martyr- 
dom.&mdash;At Rome, blessed Porphyry, a man of God, 
who instructed the holy martyr Agapitus in the 
faith and doctrine of Christ.&mdash;In the island of Noir- 
moutiers, St. Philibert, abbot.&mdash;At Chinon, St. Maxi- 
nms, confessor, disciple of the blessed bishop Mar- 
tin. On Mount Senario, in the diocese of Florence, 
blessed Manetius, confessor, one of the seven found- 
ers of the Order of the Servites of the Blessed Vir- 
gin Mary, w r ho breathed his last whilst reciting 
hymns in her honor. 



Cfte Ctoemp*ft r r0t Dap of august 

A T Annecy, in Savoy, the festival of St. Jane 
-" Frances Fremiot de Chantal, foundress of the 
Order of Nuns of the Visitation of St. Mary, who 
is commemorated on the 13th of December.&mdash;At 
Rome, in the Veran field, St. Cyriaca, widow and 
martyr.&mdash;In the persecution of Valerian, after de- 
voting herself and all her goods in the service of 
the saints, she gave up her life by suffering martyr- 
dom for Christ.&mdash;At Salona, St. Anastasius, a law 
officer, who was converted to the faith by seeing the 
fortitude with which blessed Agapitus bore his tor- 
ments, and being put to death by order of the em- 
peror Auvolian, for confessing the name of Christ, 



252 AUGUST. 

went to Our Lord.&mdash;In Sardinia, the birthday of the 
holy martyrs Luxorius, Cisellus, and Camerinus, 
who were put to the sword in the persecution of 
Diocletian, under the governor Delphius.&mdash;In Gevau- 
dan, St. Privatus, bishop and martyr, who suffered 
in the persecution of Valerian and Gallienus. The 
same day, the holy martyrs Bonosus and Maximian. 
At Fundi, in Campania, St. Paternus, a martyr, 
who came from Alexandria to Rome to visit the 
tomb of the Apostles. Thence he retired to the 
neighborhood of Fundi, where, being seized by the 
tribune whilst he was burying the bodies of the 
martyrs, he died in captivity.&mdash;At Edessa, in Syria, 
during the persecution of Maximian, the holy mar- 
tyrs .Bassa, and her sons Theogonius, Agapius, and 
Fidelis, whom their pious mother exhorted to mar- 
tyrdom and sent before her bearing their crowns. 
Being herself beheaded, she joyfully followed them 
and shared their victory.&mdash;At Verona, St. Euprepius, 
bishop and confessor.&mdash;Also St. Quadratus, bishop. 
At Siena, in Tuscany, blessed Bernard Ptolemy, 
abbot and founder of the Congregation of Olivetans. 



Cfie Ctoemp'Seconfl Dap of 

rriHE Octave of the Assumption of the Blessed 
-*- Virgin Mary.&mdash;At Rome, on the Ostian road, 
the birthday of the holy martyr Timothy. After he 
had been arrested by Tarquinius, prefect of the 



AUGUST. 253 

city, and kept for a long time in prison, as he re- 
fused to sacrifice to the idols, he was scourged three 
times, subjected to the most severe torments, and 
finally beheaded.&mdash;At Porto, St. Hippolytus, bishop, 
most renowned for learning. Having gloriously 
confessed the faith, in the time of the emperor Alex- 
ander, he was bound hand and foot, precipitated 
into a deep ditch filled with water, and thus received 
the palm of martyrdom. His body was buried by 
the Christians at that place.&mdash;At Autun, St. Sym- 
phorian, a martyr, in the time of the emperor Aure- 
lian. Refusing to offer sacrifice to the idols, he was 
first scourged, then confined in prison, and finally 
ended his martyrdom by being beheaded.&mdash;At Home, 
St. Antoninus, martyr, who, openly declaring him- 
self a Christian, was condemned to capital punish- 
ment by the judge Vitellius, and buried on the Aure- 
lian road.&mdash;Also, at Porto, the holy martyrs Martial, 
Saturninus, Epictetus, Maprilis, and Felix, with 
their companions.&mdash;At Nicomedia, the Saints Agath- 
onicus, Zoticus, and their fellow-martyrs, under the 
emperor Maximian and the governor Eutholomius. 
At Tarsus, the Saints&mdash;Athanasius, bishop and mar- 
tyr, Anthusa, a noble woman whom he had baptized, 
and two of her slaves, who suffered under Valerian. 
At Bheims, the holy martyr Maurus and his com- 
panions.&mdash;In Spain, the saintly martyrs Fabrician 
and Philibert.&mdash;At Pavia, St. Gunifort, martyr. 



254 AUGUST. 



CtoentHinrD Dap of 3ugu0t, 

fTlHE vigil of St. Bartholomew, apostle.&mdash;At Todi, 
St. Philip Beniti of Florence, confessor. He 
contributed greatly to the growth of the Order of 
the Servites of the Blessed Virgin Mary, and was a 
man of the greatest humility. He was numbered 
among the saints by Clement X.&mdash;At Antioch, the 
birthday of the holy martyrs Restitutus, Donatus, 
Valerian, and Fructuosa, with twelve others, who 
were crowned after having distinguished themselves 
by a glorious confession.&mdash;At Ostia, the holy martyrs 
Quiriacus, bishop, Maximus, priest, Archelaus, 
deacon, and their companions, who suffered under 
the prefect Ulpian, in the time of Alexander.&mdash;At 
^Egsea, in Cilicia, the holy martyrs Claudius, Aster- 
ius, and Neon, brothers, who were accused of being 
Christians by their step-mother, under the emperor 
Diocletian, and the governor Lysias, and after en- 
during bitter torments, were fastened to a cross, and 
thus conquered and triumphed with Christ. After 
them suffered Donvina and Theonilla.&mdash;At Rheims, 
in France, the birthday of the Saints Timothy and 
Apollinaris, who merited to enter the heavenly 
kingdom by consummating their martyrdom in that 
city.&mdash;At Lyons, the holy martyrs Minervus, and 
Eleazar with his eight sons.&mdash;Also, St. Luppus, 
martyr, who, though a slave, enjoyed the liberty of 
Christ, and was likewise deemed worthy of the 
crown of martyrdom.&mdash;At Jerusalem, St. Zaccheus, 



AUGUST. 255 

bishop, who governed the church of that city the 
fourth after the blessed apostle James.&mdash;At Alex- 
andria, St. Theonas, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At 
Utica, in Africa, blessed Victor, bishop.&mdash;At Autun, 
St. Flavian, bishop.&mdash;At Clermont, in Auvergne, St. 
Sidonius, a bishop distinguished for learning and 
sanctity. 



Cfte Ctoemgsfoimf) Dap of 



apostle St. Bartholomew, who preached the 
Gospel of Christ in&mdash;India. He passed thence 
into the Greater Armenia, where, after converting 
many to the faith, he was flayed alive by the bar- 
barians, and beheaded by order of king Astyages, 
and thus he terminated his martyrdom. His sacred 
body was first carried to the island of Lipara, then 
to Benevento, and finally to Rome in the island of 
the Tiber, where it is venerated by the pious faith- 
ful.&mdash;At Carthage, three hundred holy martyrs, in 
the time of Valerian and Gallienus. Among other 
torments inflicted on them, a pit filled with burning 
lime was prepared by order of the governor, who, 
live coals with incense being brought to him, said 
to the confessors: "Choose one of these two things; 
to offer incense to Jupiter on these coals, or to cast 
yourselves into the lime." Armed with faith, and 
confessing Christ to be the Son of God, they quickly 
precipitated themselves into the pit, and amidst 



AUGUST. 

the vapors of the lime were reduced to dust. From 
this circumstance this blessed troop obtained the 
appellation of White Mass.&mdash;At Nepi, St. Ptolemy, 
bishop, disciple of the blessed apostle Peter. Being 
sent by him to preach the Gospel in Tuscany, he 
died a glorious martyr of Christ in the city of Nepi. 
In the same place, St. Eomanus, bishop of that 
city, who was the disciple of St. Ptolemy, and his 
companion in martyrdom.&mdash;At Ostia, St. Aurea, 
virgin and martyr, who was plunged into the sea 
with a stone tied to her neck. Her body, being 
cast on the shore, was buried by blessed Nounus. 
In Isauria, St. Tatio, martyr, who received the 
crown of martyrdom by being beheaded in the perse- 
cution of Domitian, under the governor Urbanus. 
The same day, St. Eutychius, disciple of the blessed 
Evangelist John. He preached the Gospel in many 
countries, was subjected to imprisonment, to stripes 
and fire, and finally he rested in peace.&mdash;Also, ^t. 
George Limniota, monk. Because he reprehended 
the impious emperor Leo for breaking holy images 
and burning the relics of the saints, he had his hands 
cut off and his head burned by order of the tyrant, 
and went to our Lord to receive the recompense of a 
martyr.&mdash;At Rouen, St. Owen, bishop and confessor. 
At Nevers, St. Patrick, abbot. 



AUGUST. 257 



C&e Ctoentgsftftf) Dap of august 

A T Paris, St. Louis, confessor, king of France, 
" illustrious by the holiness of his life and the 
fame of his miracles.&mdash;At Rome, in the time of the 
emperor Commodus, the holy martyrs Eusebius, 
Pontian, Vincent, and Peregrinus, who were first 
racked, distended by ropes, then beaten with rods 
and burned on their sides. As they continued 
faithfully to praise Christ, they were scourged with 
leaded whips until they expired.&mdash;Also, at Rome, 
St. Genesius, martyr, who embraced the profession 
of actor while he was yet a Pagan. One day he 
was deriding the Christian mysteries in the theatre 
in the presence of the emperor Diocletian; but by 
the inspiration of God he was suddenly converted 
to the faith and baptized. By the command of the 
emperor, he was forthwith most cruelly beaten with 
rods, then racked, and a long time lacerated with 
iron hooks, and burned with fire-brands. As he 
remained firm in the faith of Christ, and said: 
"There is no king besides Christ. Should you kill 
rue a thousand times, you shall not be able to take 
Him from my lips or my heart," he was beheaded, 
and thus merited the palm of martyrdom.&mdash;At Ital- 
ica, in Spain, St. Gerontius, a bishop, who preached 
the Gospel in that country in apostolic times, and 
after many labors died in prison.&mdash;At Aries, in 
France, another blessed Genesius, who, filling the 
office of notary, and refusing to record the impious 

17 



258 AUGUST. 

edicts by which Christians were commanded to be 
punished, threw away his tablets publicly, and de- 
clared himself a Christian. He was seized and be- 
headed, and thus attained to the glory of martyrdom 
through baptism in his blood.&mdash;In Syria, St. Julian, 
martyr.&mdash;At Tarragona, St. Maginus, martyr.&mdash;At 
Constantinople, St. Mennas, bishop.&mdash;At Utrecht, St. 
Gregory, bishop.&mdash;At Naples, St. Patricia, virgin. 



Cfie Ctoentg^fetft Dap of august* 

A T Rome, St. Zephirinus, pope and martyr.&mdash;In 
" the same city, during the persecution of Valerian, 
the holy martyrs Irenseus and Abundius, who were 
thrown into a sewer from which they had taken 
the body of blessed Concordia. Their bodies were 
drawn out by the priest Justin, and buried in a 
crypt near St. Lawrence.&mdash;At Vintimigilia, a city 
of Liguria, St. Secundus, martyr, a distinguished 
man and officer in the Theban Legion.&mdash;At Ber- 
gamo, in Lombardy, St. Alexander, martyr, who 
was one of the same legion, and endured martyr- 
dom by being beheaded for the constant confession 
of the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Among the 
Marcians, the Saints Simplicius, and his sons 
Constantius and Victorian, who were first tortured 
in different manners, and then being struck with 
the axe, obtained the crown of martyrdom, in the 



AUGUST. 259 

time of the emperor Antoninus.&mdash;At Nicomedia, the 
martyrdom of St. Adrian, son of the emperor Pro- 
bus. For reproaching Licinius on account of the 
persecution raised against Christians, he was put to 
death by his order. His body was buried at Argyo- 
polis by his uncle Domitius, bishop of Byzantium. 
In Spain, St. Victor, martyr, who merited the crown 
of martyrs by being slain by the Moors for the faith 
of Christ.&mdash;At Capua, St. Rufinus, bishop and con- 
fessor.&mdash;At Pistoja, St. Felix, priest and confessor. 
At Lima, in Peru, St. Rose of St. Mary, virgin, of 
the third Order of St. Dominic. Her feast is cele- 
brated on the 30th of this month. 



Cfie Ctoentp^etoentf) Dap of 

AT Rome, the demise of St. Joseph, confessor, 
" illustrious by the innocence of his life and 
miracles, who, to instruct youth in piety and let- 
ters, founded the Order of the Poor Clerks Regular 
of the pious Schools of the Mother of God.&mdash;At 
Capua, in Campania, the birthday of St. Rufus, 
bishop and martyr, a patrician, who was baptized 
with all his family by blessed Apollinaris, disciple 
of St. Peter.&mdash;In the same place, the holy martyrs 
Rufus and Carpophorus, who suffered under Dio- 
cletian and Maximian.&mdash;At Tomis, in Pontus, the 
holy martyrs Marcellinus, tribune, and Mannea, his 



260 



AUGUST. 



wife, and his sons John, Serapion, and Peter.&mdash;At 
Lentini, in Sicily, St. Euthalia, virgin. Because she 
was a Christian she was put to the sword by her 
brother Sermilian, and went to her spouse. The 
same day, the martyrdom of St. Anthusa the 
Younger, who was made a martyr by being cast 
into a well for the faith of Christ.&mdash;At Bergamo, 
St. Narnus, who was baptized by blessed Barnabas, 
and consecrated by him first bishop of that city. 
At Aries, the holy bishop Csesarius, a man of great 
sanctity and piety.&mdash;At Autun, St. Syagrius, bishop 
and confessor.&mdash;At Pavia, St. John, bishop.&mdash;At 
Lerida, in Spain, St. Licerius, bishop.&mdash;In Thebais, 
St. Poemon, anchoret.&mdash;At San Severino, in the 
March of Ancona, St. Margaret, widow. 



Cfte Ctoentp*eisi)t{) Dap of 



A T HSppo Regius, in Africa, the birthday of St. 
** Augustine, bishop and famous doctor of the 
Church. Converted and baptized by the blessed 
bishop Ambrose, he defended the Catholic faith with 
the greatest zeal against the Manicheans and other 
heretics, and after having sustained many other 
labors for the Church of God, he went to his reward 
in heaven. His relics, owing to the invasion of bar- 
barians, were first brought from his own city into 
Sardinia, and afterwards taken by Luitprand, king 



AUGUST. 261 

of the Lombards, to Pavia, where they were deposited 
with due honors.&mdash;At Rome, the birthday of St. 
Hermes, an illustrious man, who, as we read in the 
Acts of the blessed pope Alexander, was first con- 
fined in prison, and afterwards ended his martyr- 
dom by the sword, under the judge Aurelian.&mdash;At 
Brioude, in Auvergne, St. Julian, martyr, during the 
persecution of Diocletian. Being the companion of 
the blessed tribune Ferreol, and secretly serving 
Christ under a military garb, he was arrested by the 
soldiers, and killed in a barbarous manner by having 
his throat cut.&mdash;At Coutances, in France, St. Pela- 
gius, martyr, who received the crown of martyrdom 
under the emperor Numerian and the judge Evila- 
sius.&mdash;At Salerno, the holy martyrs Fortunatus, 
Caius, and Anthes, beheaded under the emperor 
Diocletian and the proconsul Leontius.&mdash;At Con- 
stantinople, the holy bishop Alexander, an aged and 
celebrated man, through whose efficacious prayers 
Arius, by the judgment of God, burst asunder and 
exposed his intestines.&mdash;At Saintes, St. Vivian, 
bishop and confessor.&mdash;Also, St. Moses, an ^Ethio- 
pian, who gave up a life of robbery and became a 
renowned anchoret. He converted many robbers, 
and led them to a monastery. 



262 AUGUST. 



Cfte Ctoemp*mnt& Dap of august, 

fTIHE beheading of St. John the Baptist, who was 
* put to death by Herod about the feast of Easter. 
However, the solemn commemoration takes place to- 
day, when his venerable head was found for the 
second time. It was afterwards solemnly carried to 
Rome, where it is kept in the church of St. Silvester, 
near Campo Marzio, and honored by the people with 
the greatest devotion.&mdash;At Rome, on Mount Aven- 
tine, the birthday of St. Sabina, martyr. Under the 
emperor Adrian, she was struck with the sword, and 
thus obtained the palm of martyrdom.&mdash;Also, at 
Rome, St. Candida, virgin and martyr, whose body 
was transferred to the church of St. Praxedes by 
pope Paschal I.&mdash;At Antioch, in Syria, the birthday 
of the holy martyrs Nica3as and Paul.&mdash;At Constanti- 
nople, the holy martyrs Hypatius, an Asiatic bishop, 
and Andrew, a priest, who for the worship of holy 
images, under Leo the Isaurian, after having their 
beards besmirched with pitch and set on fire, and the 
skin of their heads torn off, were beheaded.&mdash;At 
Perugia, St. Euthymius, a Roman, who fled from 
the persecution of Diocletian with his wife and his 
son Crescentius, and there rested in the Lord.&mdash;At 
Metz, St. Adelphus, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Paris 
the demise of St. Merry, priest.&mdash;In England, St. 
Sebbi, king.&mdash;At Smyrna, the birthday of St. Basilla. 
In the vicinity of Troyes, St. Sabina, a virgin, 
celebrated for virtues and miracles. 



AUGUST. 263 



C&e Cftirtietft Dap of august 

fTHE feast of St. Rose of St. Mary, virgin, whose 
birthday is the 26th of this month.&mdash;At Rome, 
on the Ostian road, the martyrdom of the blessed 
priest Felix, under the emperors Diocletian and 
Maximian. After being racked he was sentenced 
to death, and as they led him to execution, he met 
a man who spontaneously declared himself a Chris- 
tian, and was forthwith beheaded with him. The 
Christians not knowing his name, called him Adauc- 
tus, because he was added to St. Felix and shared 
his crown.&mdash;Also, at Rome, St. Gaudentia, virgin and 
martyr, with three others.&mdash;In the same city, St. 
Pammachius, a priest distinguished for learning and 
holiness.&mdash;At Colonia Suffetulana, in Africa, sixty 
blessed martyrs, who were murdered by the furious 
Gentiles.&mdash;At Adrumetum, also in Africa, the Saints 
Boniface and Thecla, who were the parents of twelve 
blessed sons, martyrs.&mdash;At Thessalonica, St. Fanti- 
nus, confessor, who suffered much from the Saracens, 
and was driven from his monastery, in which he had 
lived in great abstinence. After having brought 
many to the way of salvation, he rested at last at an 
advanced age.&mdash;In the diocese of Meaux, St. Fiacre, 
confessor.&mdash;At Trevi, St. Peter, confessor, who was 
distinguished for many virtues and miracles. He is 
honored in that place, whence he departed for 
heaven.&mdash;At Bologna, St. Bononius, abbot. 



2G4 AUGUST. 



Cf)e CJ)trtp*fir0t Dap of 

AT Cardona, in Spain, St. Raymond Nonnatus, 
cardinal and confessor, of the Order of Merce- 
darians, renowned for holiness of life and miracles. 
At Treves, the birthday of St. Paulimis, a bishop, 
who was exiled for the Catholic faith by the Arian 
emperor Constantius, in the time of the Arian perse- 
cution. By having to change the place of his exile, 
which was beyond the limits of Christendom, he be- 
came wearied unto death, and finally, dying in 
Phrygia, received a crown from the Lord for his 
blessed martyrdom.&mdash;Also, the holy martyrs Ro- 
bustian and Mark.&mdash;At Transaqua^, among the 
Marsi, near lake Celano, the birthday of the holy 
martyrs Cresidius, priest, and his companions, who 
were crowned with martyrdom in the persecution 
of Maximinus.&mdash;At Caesarea, in Cappadocia, the 
Saints Theodotus, Rufina, and Ammia. The first 
two were the parents of the martyr St. Mamas, 
who was born in prison, and whom Ammia brought 
up.&mdash;At&mdash;Athens, St. Aristides, most celebrated for 
his faith and wisdom, who presented to the em- 
peror Adrian a treatise on the Christian religion, 
containing the exposition of our doctrine.&mdash;In the 
presence of the emperor, he also delivered a dis- 
course in which he clearly demonstrated that Jesus 
Christ is the only God.&mdash;At Auxerre, St. Optatus, 
bishop and confessor.&mdash;In England, St. Aidan, bishop 
of Lindisfarne. When St. Cuthbert, then a shep- 



AUGUST. 265 

herd, saw his soul going up to heaven, he left his 
sheep and became a monk.&mdash;At Nusco, St. Amatus, 
bishop. On Mount Senario, near Florence, blessed 
Bonajuncta, confessor, one of the seven founders of 
the Order of the Servites of the Blessed Virgin Mary, 
who gave up his soul into the hands of the Lord 
whilst discoursing to his brethren on the Passion of 
our Saviour. 




SEPTEMBER. 




Cf)e JFim Dap of 



|N THE province of Narbonne, St. Giles, ab- 
bot and confessor.&mdash;At Benevento, twelve 
saintly brothers, martyrs.&mdash;In Palestine, 
the Saints Josue and Gedeon.&mdash;At Jeru- 
salem, blessed Anna, prophetess, whose sanctity is 
revealed in the Gospel.&mdash;At Capua, on the Aquarian 
road, St. Priscus, martyr, who was one of the ancient 
disciples of Christ.&mdash;At Rheims, in France, St. 
Xystus, disciple of the blessed apostle Peter, who 
was consecrated by him the first bishop of that city, 
and received the crown of martyrdom under Nero. 
At Todi, in Umbria, St. Terentian, bishop and mar- 
tyr. Under the emperor Adrian, he was racked, and 
scourged with whips set with metal by order of the 
proconsul Laetian, and finally, having his tongue cut 
out, he ended his martyrdom by undergoing capital 
punishment.&mdash;At Heraclea, St. Ammon, deacon, and 
forty holy virgins whom he instructed in the faith, 
and led with him to the glory of matryrdom, under 
the tyrant Licinius.&mdash;In Spain, the holy martyrs 
Vincent and Lsetus.&mdash;At Piombino, in Tuscany, St. 
Regulus, martyr, who went thither from Africa, 



SEPTEMBER. 267 

and consummated his martyrdom under Totila. 
At Sens, St. Lupus, bishop and confessor, of whom 
it is related, that on a certain day, whilst he stood 
at the holy altar in presence of the clergy, a gem 
fell from heaven into the consecrated chalice which 
he was using.&mdash;At Capua, St. Priscus, bishop. He 
was one of those priests who were subjected to 
various trials for the Catholic faith during the 
persecution of the Vandals. Being put in an old 
ship on the coast of Africa, they reached the shores 
of Campania, and separating, they were placed at 
the head of various churches, and thus greatly ex- 
tended the Christian religion. The companions of 
Priscus were Castrensis, Tammarus, Rosius, Hera- 
clius, Secundinus, Adjutor, Mark, Augustus, Elpi- 
dius, Canion, and Vindonius.&mdash;At Aquino, St. Con- 
stantius, a bishop renowned for the gift of prophecy 
and many virtues.&mdash;At Le Mans, St. Victorius, bis- 
hop.&mdash;In Baden, in the diocese of Constance, St. 
Verena, virgin. 



Cfie SeconD Dap of 

AT Alba, in Hungary, St. Stephen, king of Hun- 
^ gary, who, being adorned with divine virtues, 
was the first to convert the Hungarians to the faith 
of Christ. He was received into heaven by the 
Virgin Mother of God, on the day of her Assump- 
tion. His feast, nevertheless, is commemorated on 



268 SEPTEMBER. 

this day, according to the Constitution of pope&mdash;In- 
nocent XI., when the strong fortress of Buda was 
reconquered through the assistance of the holy 
king, by the brave Christian army.&mdash;At Rome, the 
holy martyr Maxima, who confessed Christ with 
St. Ansanus in the persecution of Diocletian, and 
yielded up her soul whilst she was beaten with rods. 
At Pamiers, in France, St. Antoninus, martyr, 
whose relics are kept with great veneration in the 
church of Palencia,&mdash;Also, the holy martyrs Dio- 
medes, Julian, Philip, Euthychian, Hesychius, Leon- 
ides, Philadelphus, Menalippus, and Pantagapas. 
They consummated their martyrdom, some by fire, 
some by water, others by the sword or by the cross. 
At Nicomedia, the holy martyr Zeno, and his sons 
Concordius and Theodore. The same day, the mar- 
tyrdom of the Saints Evodius and Hermogenes, 
brothers, and Callista, their sister.&mdash;At Lyons, in 
France, St. Justus, bishop and confessor, who was 
endowed with extraordinary sanctity, and a pro- 
phetic spirit. He resigned his bishopric, and retired 
into a desert of Egypt, with his lector Viator. 
When he had for some years led an almost angeli- 
cal life, and the end of his meritorious labors had 
come, he went to our Lord to receive the crown of 
justice, on the 14th day of October. His holy body, 
together with the relics of his blessed lector Viator, 
was afterwards taken to Lyons on this day.&mdash;In the 
same city, St. Elpidius, bishop and confessor.&mdash;In 
the March of Ancona, another St. Elpidius, an abbot. 



SEPTEMBER. 269 

A town bearing his name glories in the possession 
of his sacred body. On Mount Soractes, the abbot 
St. Nonnosus, who, by his prayers removed a rock 
of huge dimensions, and was renowned for other 
miracles. 



Cfte CfiirD Dap of September, 

A T Rome, St. Serapia, virgin. Under the emperor 
** Adrian, she was delivered to two lascivious 
young men, and as she could not be corrupted, nor 
afterwards burned with lighted torches, she was 
beaten with rods, and finally beheaded, by order of 
the judge Berillus. She died on the 29th of July, 
and was buried by blessed Sabina in her own sepul- 
chre, near the field of Vindician. But the commem- 
oration of her martyrdom is celebrated more 
solemnly on this day, when their common tomb was 
finished and adorned, and dedicated as a place of 
prayer.&mdash;At Corinth, the birthday of St. Phoabe, 
mentioned by the blessed apostle Paul in his epistle 
to the Romans.&mdash;At Aquileia, the holy virgins and 
martyrs Euphemia, Dorothea, Thecla, and Erasma. 
Under Nero, after enduring many torments, they 
were slain with the sword, and buried by St. Herma- 
goras.&mdash;At Capua, the holy martyrs Aristseus, 
bishop, and Antoninus, a boy.&mdash;At Nicomedia, the 
martyrdom of St. Basillissa, virgin and martyr, in 



270 SEPTEMBER. 

the persecution of Diocletian, under the governor 
Alexander.&mdash;At the age of nine years, after having, 
through the power of God, overcome scourging, fire, 
and the beasts, she gave up her soul to her Creator 
in prayer.&mdash;Also, the holy martyrs Zeno and Chari- 
ton. The one was cast into a caldron of melted 
lead, the other into a burning furnace.&mdash;At Cordova, 
St. Sandalus, martyr. The same day, the birthday 
of the holy martyrs Aigulphus, abbot of Lerins, and 
the monks, his companions, who, after their tongues 
were cut off, and their eyes plucked out, were killed 
with the sword.&mdash;At Toul, in France, St. Mansuetus, 
bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Milan, the demise of St. 
Auxanus, bishop. The same day, St. Simeon Sty- 
lites, the younger.&mdash;At Rome, the raising to the 
Sovereign Pontificate of St. Gregory the Great, an 
incomparable man, who, being forced to take that 
burden upon himself, sent forth from the more 
exalted throne brighter rays of sanctity upon the 
world. 



Cfte jFourtft Dap of 

AN Mount Nebo, in the land of Moab, the holy 
" lawgiver and prophet Moses.&mdash;At Ancyra, in 
Galatia, the birthday of three saintly boys, Rufi- 
nus, Silvanus, and Vitalicus, martyrs.&mdash;At Chalons, 
in France, St. Marcellus, martyr, under the em- 
peror Antoninus. Being invited to a profane ban- 



SEPTEMBER. 27i 

quct by the governor Priscus, and abhorring the 
meats that were served, he reproved with great 
freedom all persons present for worshipping the 
idols. For this, by an unheard-of kind of cruelty, 
the same governor had him burned alive up to the 
waist. After persevering for three days in prais- 
ing God, he yielded up his undefiled soul. The same 
day, the holy martyrs Magnus, Castus, and Maximus. 
At Treves, St. Marcellus, bishop and martyr. 
The same day, the Saints Thameles, previously a 
Pagan priest, and his companions, martyrs under 
the emperor Adrian.&mdash;Also, the holy martyrs Theo- 
dore, Oceanus, Ammian, and Julian, who had their 
feet cut off, and consummated their martyrdom by 
being thrown into the fire, in the time of the em- 
peror Maximian.&mdash;At Rimini, St. Marinus, deacon. 
At Palermo, the birthday of St. Rosalia, virgin, a 
native of that city, issued from the royal blood of 
Charlemange. For the love of Christ, she forsook 
the princely court of her father, and led a heavenly 
life alone in mountains and caverns.&mdash;At Naples, in 
Campania, the birthday of St. Candida, who was the 
first to meet St. Peter when he came to that city, 
and being baptized by him, afterwards ended her 
holy life in peace.&mdash;In the same place, St. Candida, 
the younger, renowned for miracles.&mdash;At Viterbo, 
blessed Rose, virgin. 



272 SEPTEMBER. 



Cfie Jfiftft Dap of September* 

fTIHE feast of St. Lawrence Justinian, first Patri- 
-* arch of Venice, who, by glorious miracles and 
virtues, illustrated the episcopal dignity which he 
received against his will on this day. His birth- 
day is the 8th of January.&mdash;In the suburbs of Rome, 
blessed Victorinus, bishop and martyr, in the time 
of Nerva Trajan. Being renowned for sanctity and 
miracles, he was elected bishop of Amiterno by the 
whole people, but afterwards he was banished, with 
other servants of God, to Contigliano, where spring 
forth fetid sulphurous waters, and was suspended 
with his head downward by order of the judge Aure- 
lian. Having for the name of Christ endured this 
torment for three days, he was gloriously crowned, 
and went victoriously to our Lord. His body was 
taken away by the Christians, and buried with due 
honors at Araiterno.&mdash;Also, at Porto, the birthday 
of St. Her cul anus, martyr.&mdash;At Capua, the holy 
martyrs Quinctius, Arcontius, and Donatus. The 
same day, St. Romulus, prefect of Trajan's court. 
For reproving the cruelty of the emperor towards 
Christians, he was scourged with rods, and beheaded. 
At Melitine, in Armenia, the martyrdom of the 
holy soldiers Eudoxius, Zeno, Macarius, and their 
companions to the number of eleven hundred and 
four, who threw away their military belts, and were 
put to death for the confession of Christ, in the per- 
secution of Diocletian.&mdash;At Constantinople, the holy 



SEPTEMBER. 273 

martyrs Urbanus, Theodore, Menedemus, and their 
ecclesiastical companions, seventy-seven in number, 
who were put in a ship by the command of the em- 
peror Valens, and burned on the sea for the Catholic 
faith.&mdash;In the neighborhood of Terouanne, in the 
monastery of Sithiu, St. Bertin, abbot.&mdash;At Toledo, 
St. Obdulia, virgin. 



Cfte Stoft Dap of 

HPHE prophet Zachary, who returned in his old 
" age from Chaldea to his own country, and lies 
buried near the prophet Aggeus.&mdash;In Hellespont, 
St. Onesiphorus, disciple of the Apostles, of whom 
St. Paul speaks in his letter to Timothy. He was 
severely scourged with St. Porphyry, by order of 
the proconsul Adrian, and being dragged by wild 
horses, gave up his soul to God.&mdash;At Alexandria, 
the holy martyrs Faustus, priest, Macarius, and ten 
companions, who received the martyr's crown by 
being beheaded for the name of Christ, in the time 
of the emperor Decius and the governor Valerius. 
In Cappadocia, the holy martyrs Cottidus, deacon, 
Eugenius, and their companions.&mdash;In Africa, in the 
persecution of the Vandals, the holy bishops Dona 
tian, Prsesidius, Mansuetus, Germanus, and Fuscu- 
lus, who were most cruelly scourged and sent into 
exile, by order of the Arian king Hunneric, because 
they proclaimed the Catholic truth. Among them 

18 



274 SEPTEMBER. 

was one named Laetus, also a bishop, a courageous 
and most learned man, who was burned alive after 
a long imprisonment in a loathsome dungeon.&mdash;At 
Verona, St. Petronius, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At 
Rome, the holy abbot Eleutherius, a servant of God, 
who, according to the testimony of Pope St. Gregory, 
raised a dead man to life by his prayers and tears. 



Cfie Setientft Dag of September* 

AT Nicomedia, the birthday of the blessed martyr 
" John, who seeing the cruel edicts against 
Christians posted up in the public square, and being 
inflamed with an ardent faith, stretched forth his 
hand, took them away and tore them up. This be- 
ing reported to the emperors Diocletian and Maxi- 
mian, then residing in that city, they gave orders 
that he should be subjected to all kinds of torments, 
which the noble champion bore with such cheerful- 
ness of spirit, as not to show on his countenance the 
least trace of pain or grief.&mdash;At Csesarea, in Cappa- 
docia, in the time of the emperor Adrian, St. Eupsy- 
chius, martyr, who, on being accused of professing 
Christianity, was cast into prison. His release fol- 
lowing shortly after, he immediately sold his patri- 
mony, and distributed the proceeds of it partly to 
the poor and partly to his accusers, whom he re- 
garded as his benefactors. But being again arrested, 
under the judge Sapritius, he was lacerated, pierced 



SEPTEMBER. 275 

through with a sword, and thus consummated his 
martyrdom.&mdash;At Pompeiopolis, in Cilicia, St. Sozon, 
martyr, who, being thrown into the fire, yielded up 
his spirit, in the time of the emperor Maximian. 
At Aquileia, St. Anastasius, martyr.&mdash;In the dio- 
cese of Autun, St. Regina, virgin and martyr, under 
the proconsul Olybrius. After having suffered im- 
prisonment, the rack, and burning with torches, she 
was condemned to capital punishment, and so went 
to her spouse.&mdash;At Troyes, St. Nemorius, deacon, and 
his companions, martyrs, who were slain by&mdash;Attila, 
king of the Huns.&mdash;At Orleans, in France, the de- 
parture from this life of the holy bishop Evortius, 
who was first a subdeacon of the Roman Church, 
and afterwards, through the divine favor, was 
designated bishop of that city by a dove.&mdash;In France, 
St. Augustalis, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Capua, St. 
Pamphilus, bishop.&mdash;In the territory of Paris, St. 
Cloud, priest and confessor.&mdash;At Nonantola, pope St. 
Adrian III., remarkable for his zeal to reconcile the 
Eastern churches with the Holy See. He died in 
the odor of sanctity at San Cesario, and became 
widely celebrated by his miracles. 



Cfte <Eigf)tJ) Dap of 

fPHE Nativity of the most Blessed and ever Vir- 

- gin Mary, Mother of God.&mdash;At Nicouiedia, St. 

Adrian, with twenty -three other martyrs, who ended 



276 SEPTEMBER. 

their martyrdom the 4th of March by having their 
limbs crushed, after enduring many torments under 
the emperors Diocletian and Maximian. Their re- 
mains were carried to Byzantium by the Christians, 
and buried with due honors. Afterwards the body 
of St. Adrian was taken to Home on this day, on 
which his festival is celebrated.&mdash;At Alexandria, 
the holy martyrs Ammon, Theophilus, Neoterius, and 
twenty-two others.&mdash;At Antioch, the Saints Timothy 
and Faustus, martyrs.&mdash;At Gaza, in Palestine, the 
holy martyrs Eusebius, Nestabus, and Zeno, brothers, 
who were cut to pieces by a multitude of Pagans that 
rushed upon them, in the time of Julian the Apostate. 
In the same place, and under the same Julian, St. 
Nestor, martyr, who, being most cruelly tortured by 
the same furious Gentiles, breathed his last.&mdash;At Va- 
lencia, in Spain, St. Thomas of Villanova, arch- 
bishop, distinguished by his ardent charity for the 
poor. He was inscribed among the saints by Alex- 
ander VII., and his feast is celebrated on the 22d 
of this month.&mdash;At Freisingen, St. Corbinian, first 
bishop of that city. Being consecrated by pope 
Gregory II., and sent to preach the Gospel, he reaped 
an abundant harvest in France and Germany, and 
finally renowned for virtues and miracles, rested in 
peace. 



SEPTEMBER. 277 



Cfte H3intft Dag of September* 

AT Nicomedia, the holy martyrs Dorotheus and 
" Gorgonius. The greatest honors had been con- 
ferred on them by the emperor Diocletian, but as 
they detested the cruelty which he exercised against 
the Christians, they were by his order suspended in 
his presence, and lacerated with whips; then their 
skin being torn from their bodies, and vinegar with 
salt poured over them, they were burned on a grid- 
iron and finally strangled. After some time, the 
body of blessed Gorgonius was brought to Rome, and 
deposited on the Latin road. Thence it was trans- 
ferred to the basilica of St. Peter. Among the Sa- 
bines, thirty miles from Rome, the holy martyrs 
Hyacinthus, Alexander, and Tiburtius.&mdash;At Sebaste, 
St. Severian, a soldier of the emperor Licinius. For 
frequently visiting the Forty Martyrs whilst they 
were in prison, he was suspended in the air with a 
stone tied to his feet by order of the governor Lysias, 
and being scourged and torn with whips, yielded up 
his soul in the midst of torments. The same day, 
St. Straton, who ended his martyrdom for Christ by 
being tied to two trees and torn to pieces.&mdash;Also, the 
holy martyrs Rufinus and Rufinian, brothers.&mdash;At 
Rome, &t. Sergius, pope and confessor.&mdash;In the 
territory of TSrouanne, St. Omer, bishop.&mdash;In Ire- 
land, St. Kieran, abbot.&mdash;At Cartagena, in South 
America, St. Peter Claver, confessor of the Society 



278 SEPTEMBER. 

of Jesus, who labored with, wonderful self-abnega- 
tion and great charity among the negro slaves for 
more than forty years and baptized personally al- 
most thirty thousand of them. He was canonized 
by order of pope Leo XIII. 



Cfie Centft Dap of September, 

A T Tolentino, in the March of Ancona, the de- 
" parture from this life of St. Nicholas, confessor, 
of the Order of Augustinians.&mdash;In Africa, the birth- 
day of the holy bishops Nemesian, Felix, Lucius, 
another Felix, Litteus, Polyan, Victor, Jader, Dati- 
vus, and others. As a violent persecution was break- 
ing out under Valerian and Gallienus, they were at 
their first courageous confession of Christ beaten 
with rods, then put in irons, and being sent to dig in 
the metal mines, they terminated their combat and 
glorious confession.&mdash;At Chalcedon, in the persecu- 
tion of Diocletian, the holy martyrs Sosthenes and 
Victor. Under Priscus, proconsul of Asia, after 
they had been loaded with fetters and exposed to the 
beasts, they were condemned to be burned. But 
whilst they were saluting each other with a holy 
kiss and praying, they expired.&mdash;In Bithynia, the 
holy virgins Menodora, Metrodora, and Nympho- 
dora, sisters. Under the emperor Maximian and the 
governor Fronto, they were crowned with martyr- 



SEPTEMBER. 279 

dom, and went to eternal glory.&mdash;Also, the holy mar- 
tyrs Apellius, Luke, and Clement.&mdash;At Liege, in 
Belgium, St. Theodard, bishop and martyr, who laid 
down his life for his flock, and after his death was 
renowned for the gift of miracles.&mdash;At Rome, blessed 
Hilary, pope and confessor.&mdash;At Compost ell a, St. 
Peter, bishop, who was celebrated for his many vir- 
tues and miracles.&mdash;In the city of Albi, St. Salvius, 
bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Novara, St. Agapius, 
bishop.&mdash;At Constantinople, St. Pulcheria, empress 
and virgin, distinguished by her piety and zeal for 
religion. 



Cfte dEletoentf) Dap of September, 

AT Rome, in the Cemetery of Basilla, on the old 
" Salarian road, the birthday of the holy martyrs 
Protus and Hyacinth, brothers and eunuchs in the 
service of blessed Eugenia, who were arrested, in the 
time of the emperor Gallienus, on the charge of be- 
ing Christians, and urged to offer sacrifice to the 
gods. But as they refused, both were most severely 
scourged, and finally beheaded.&mdash;At Laodicea, in 
Syria, the martyrdom of the Saints Diodorus, Dio- 
medes, and Didimus.&mdash;At Leon, in Spain, St. Vin- 
cent, abbot and martyr.&mdash;In Egypt, the holy bishop 
J'aplmutius, one of those confessors, who, under the 
emperor Galerius Maxiininus, having their right eye 
plucked out and the joint of the left knee cut, were 



280 SEPTEMBER. 

condemned to work in the metal mines. Afterwards, 
under Constantine the Great, he courageously com- 
bated for the Catholic faith against the Arians, and 
at leangth, being adorned with many crowns, rested 
in peace.&mdash;At Lyons, the demise of St. Patiens, bish- 
op.&mdash;At Vercelli, St. ^milian, bishop.&mdash;At Alexan- 
dria, St. Theodora, who having committed a fault 
through imprudence and repenting of it, remained 
unknown in a religious habit, and persevered until 
her death in practices of extraordinary abstinence 
and patience. 



Cfte Ctoelftft Dap of September, 

fTlHE feast of the most holy Name of the Blessed 
Virgin Mary, celebrated by order of the Sover- 
eign Pontiff,&mdash;Innocent XI., on account of the signal 
victory gained over the Turks, at Vienna in Austria, 
through her protection.&mdash;At Alexandria, in the time 
of the emperor Maximinus, the birthday of the holy 
martyrs Hieronides, Leontius, Serapion, Selesius, 
Valerian, and Straton, who were drowned in the sea 
for the confession of the name of Christ.&mdash;In Bithy- 
nia, St. Autonomus, bishop and martyr, who went to 
that country from Italy to avoid the persecution of 
Diocletian. After he had converted many to the 
faith, he was killed at the altar by the furious Gen- 
tiles, whilst celebrating the sacred mysteries, and so 
became the victim of Christ.&mdash;At Merum, in Phrygia, 



SEPTEMBER. 281 

the holy martyrs Macedonius, Theodulus, and Tatian, 
under Julian the Apostate. After other torments, 
they joyfully consummated their martyrdom by being 
laid on burning gridirons by order of the governor 
Almachius.&mdash;At Iconium, in Lycaonia, the holy 
bishop Curonotus, who received the crown of mar- 
tyrdom by being beheaded under the governor Peren- 
nius.&mdash;At Pavia, St. Juventius, bishop, mentioned on 
the 8th of February. He was sent to that city with 
St. Cyrus by blessed Hermagoras, disciple of the 
evangelist St. Mark. They both preached the Gospel 
of Christ there, and being renowned for great virtues 
and miracles, illustrated the neighboring cities by 
divine works. They closed their glorious career in 
peace, invested with the episcopal dignity.&mdash;At Lyons, 
the decease of St. Sacerdos, bishop.&mdash;At Verona, St. 
Silvinus, bishop.&mdash;At Anderlecht, St. Guido, confes- 
sor. 



Cfie Cftirteentf) Dap of 

AT Alexandria, the birthday of blessed Philip, 
" father of the virgin St. Eugenia. Resigning the 
dignity of prefect of Egypt, he obtained the grace 
of baptism. His successor, the prefect Terentius, 
caused him to be pierced through the throat with a 
sword, whilst he was praying.&mdash;Also, the holy mar- 
tyrs Macrobius and Julian, who suffered under 
Licinius. The same day, St. Ligorius, martyr, who 



282 SEPTEMBER. 

living in the desert, was murdered by the Gentiles 
for the faith of Christ.&mdash;At Alexandria, St. Eulo- 
gius, a bishop, celebrated for learning and sanctity. 
At Angers, in France, St. Mauritius, a bishop, re- 
nowned for numberless miracles.&mdash;At Sens, St. 
Amatus, bishop and confessor. The same day, St. 
Venerius, confessor, a man of admirable sanctity, 
who led an eremitical life in the island of Palmaria. 
In the monastery of Remiremont in France, St. 
Amatus, priest and abbot, illustrious for the virtue 
of abstinence and the gift of miracles. 



jFoimeemft Dap of 

fTIHE Exaltation of the Holy Cross, when the em- 
-^ peror Heraclius, after defeating king Chosroes, 
brought it back to Jerusalem from Persia.&mdash;At 
Rome, in the Appian road, during the persecution 
of Decius, blessed Cornelius, pope and martyr, who, 
after being banished, was scourged with leaded 
whips, and then beheaded with twenty-one others of 
both sexes. On the same day, were condemned to 
capital punishment Cserealis, a soldier, and his wife 
Sallustia, who had been instructed in the faith by 
the same Cornelius.&mdash;In Africa, in the time of the 
emperors Valerian and Gallienus, St. Cyprian, 
bishop of Carthage, most renowned for holiness and 
learning. It was near the seashore, six miles from 



SEPTEMBER. 283 

the city, that he consummated his martyrdom by 
decapitation, after enduring a most painful exile. 
The festival of the Saints Cornelius and Cyprian is 
kept on the 16th of this month. There suffered also 
in the same place the holy martyrs Crescentian, Vic- 
tor, Rosula, and Generalis. On the Salarian road, 
at Rome, during the persecution of Diocletian, S f . 
Crescentius, the young son of St. Euthymius, who 
ended his life by the sword, under the judge Tur- 
pilius.&mdash;At Treves, the holy bishop Maternus, a dis- 
ciple of the blessed apostle Peter, who brought co 
the faith of Christ the inhabitants of Tongres, Co- 
logne, Treves, and of the neighboring country. The 
game day, the birthday of St. John Chrysostom, 
bishop of Constantinople, who was sent into exile 
through the conspiracy of his enemies, but was re- 
called by a decree of the Sovereign Pontiff,&mdash;Inno- 
cent I. He died on the way from the ill-treatment 
he received at the hands of the soldiers who guarded 
him. His feast is celebrated on the 27th of January, 
the day on which his sacred body was taken to Con- 
stantinople by Theodosius the Younger. 



Cfte JFifteemf) Dap of 

fTIHE Octave of the Nativity and the Feast of the 

Seven Dolors of the Blessed Virgin Mary.&mdash;At 

Rome, on the Nomentan road, the birthday of 



284 SEPTEMBER. 

blessed Nicomedes, priest and martyr. As he said 
to those who would compel him to sacrifice : "I sacri- 
fice only to the Omnipotent God who reigns in 
heaven," he was for a long time scourged with leaded 
whips, and thus went to our Lord.&mdash;In the diocese 
of Chalons, St. Valerian, martyr, who was suspended 
on high by the governor Priscus, and tortured with 
iron hooks. Remaining immovable in the confession 
of Christ, and continuing joyfully to praise Him, he 
was struck with the sword by order of the same 
magistrate.&mdash;At Marcianopolis, in Thrace, St. Meli- 
tina, a martyr, in the time of the emperor Antoninus 
and the governor Antiochus. She was twice led to 
the temples of the Gentiles, and as the idols fell to 
the ground each time, she was hanged and torn, and 
finally decapitated.&mdash;At Adrianople, the holy mar- 
tyrs Maximus, Theodore, and Asclepiodotus, who 
were crowned under the emperor Maximian.&mdash;Also, 
St. Porphyrius, a comedian, who, in the presence of 
Julian the Apostate, being baptized in jest, and sud- 
denly converted by the power of God, declared him- 
self a Christian. Forthwith, by order of the em- 
peror, he was struck with an axe, and thus crowned 
with martyrdom. The same day, St. Nicetas, a 
Goth, who was burned alive for the Catholic faith, 
by order of king&mdash;Athanaric.&mdash;At Cordova, the holy 
martyrs Emilas, deacon, and Jeremias, who ended 
their martyrdom in the persecution of the Arabs by 
being beheaded, after a long detention in prison. 
At Toul, in France, St. Aper, bishop.&mdash;Also, St. 



SEPTEMBER. 285 

Leobinus, bishop of Chartres.&mdash;At Lyons, St. Al- 
binus, bishop. The same day, the decease of St. 
Aichard, abbot.&mdash;In France, St. Eutropia, widow. 



Cfte >fcteent!) Dap of 

rriHE Saints Cornelius and Cyprian, pontiffs and 
- martyrs, whose birthday is the 14th of this 
month.&mdash;At Chalcedon, the birthday of St. Euphe- 
mia, virgin and martyr, under the emperor Diocle- 
tian and the proconsul Priscus. For faith in our 
Lord she was subjected to tortures, imprisonment, 
blows, the torment of the wheel, fire, the crushing 
weight of stones, the teeth of beasts, scourging with 
rods, the cutting of sharp saws, burning pans, all of 
which she survived. But when she was again ex- 
posed to the beasts in the amphitheatre, praying to 
our Lord to receive her spirit, one of the animals 
having inflicted a bite on her sacred body, whilst the 
rest licked her feet, she yielded her unspotted soul 
to God.&mdash;At Rome, the holy martyrs Lucia, noble 
matron, and Geminian, who were subjected to most 
grievous afflictions and a long time tortured, by the 
command of the emperor Diocletian. Finally, being 
put to the sword, they obtained the glorious victory 
of martyrdom.&mdash;Also, at Eome, at a place on the 
Flaminian road, ten miles from the city, the holy 
martyrs Abundius, priest, and Abundantius, dea- 



286 SEPTEMBER. 

con, whom the emperor Diocletian caused to be 
struck with the sword, together with Marcian, an 
illustrious man, and his son John, whom they had 
raised from the dead.&mdash;At Heraclea, in Thrace, St. 
Sebastiana, martyr, under the emperor Doinitian 
and the governor Sergius. Being brought to the 
faith of Christ by the blessed apostle Paul, she was 
tormented in various ways and finally beheaded. 
At Cordova, the holy martyrs Rogellus and Servid- 
eus, who were decapitated, after their hands and 
feet had been cut off.&mdash;In Scotland, St. Ninian, 
bishop and confessor.&mdash;In England, St. Editha, vir- 
gin, daughter of the English king Edgar, who was 
consecrated to God in a monastery from her tender 
years, whence she may be said to have been ignorant 
of the world rather than to have forsaken it. 



Cfie Setienteentfi Dap of 

fin HE commemoration of the Impression of the 
-* Sacred Wounds which St. Francis, founder of 
the Order of Minorites, received, through a wonder- 
ful favor of God, in his hands, feet and side, on 
Mount Alvernia, in Tuscany.&mdash;At Rome, on the road 
to Tivoli, the birthday of St. Justin, priest and mar- 
tyr, who distinguished himself by a glorious con- 
fession of the faith, during the persecution of Vale- 
rian and Gallienus. He buried the bodies of the 



SEPTEMBER. 287 

blessed pontiff, Xystus, of Lawrence, Hippolytus, 
and many other saints, and finally consummated his 
martyrdom under Claudius.&mdash;Also, at Home, the 
holy martyrs Narcissus and Crescentio.&mdash;In Phry- 
gia, St. Ariadna, martyr, under the emperor Adrian. 
In England, the holy martyrs Socrates and Ste- 
phen.&mdash;At Nevers, the holy martyrs Valerian, Mac- 
rinus, and Gordian.&mdash;At Autun, under the emperor 
Antoninus and the governor Valerian, St. Flocellus, 
a boy, who, after many sufferings, was torn to pieces 
by wild beasts, and thus won the crown of martyrs. 
At Liege, blessed Lambert, bishop of Maestricht. 
Having, through zeal for religion, rebuked the royal 
family, he was undeservedly put to death by the 
guilty, and thus entered the court of the heavenly 
kingdom, to enjoy it forever.&mdash;At Saragossa, in 
Spain, St. Peter of Arbues, first inquisitor of the 
faith in the kingdom of Arragon, who received the 
palm of martyrdom by being barbarously massacred 
by apostate Jews, for defending courageously the 
Catholic faith, according to the duties of his office. 
He was canonized by Pius IX. in 1867. The same 
day, St. Agathoclia, servant of an infidel woman, 
who was for a long time subjected by her to blows 
and other afflictions, that she might deny Christ. 
She was finally presented to the judge and cruelly 
lacerated, and as she persisted in confessing the 
faith, they cut off her tongue and threw her into 
the flames.&mdash;At Cordova, St. Columba, virgin and 
martyr.&mdash;At Milan, the departure from this world 



288 SEPTEMBER. 

of St. Satyrus, confessor, whose distinguished mer- 
its are mentioned by his brother, St. Ambrose.&mdash;At 
Rome, in the persecution of Diocletian, St. Theo- 
dora, a matron, who carefully ministered to the 
martyrs.&mdash;At Bingen, in the diocese of Mayence, St. 
Hildegarde, virgin. 



Cfie (Eis&teemj) Dap of eptem&er, 

AT Osimo, St. Joseph of Cupertino, confessor of 
the Order of the Minorites Conventual, who was 
placed among the Saints by Clement XIII. The 
same day, the birthday of St. Methodius, bishop of 
Olympius in Lycia, and afterwards of Tyre, most 
renowned for eloquence and learning. St. Jerome 
says that he won the martyr's crown at Chalcis, in 
Greece, at the end of the last persecution.&mdash;In the 
diocese of Vienne, the holy martyr Ferreol, a trib- 
une, who was arrested by order of the impious gov- 
ernor Crispinus, most cruelly scourged, then loaded 
with heavy chains, and cast into a dark dungeon. 
A miracle having broken his bonds, and opened the 
doors of the prison, he made his escape, but being 
taken again by his pursuers, he received the palm 
of martyrdom by being beheaded.&mdash;Also, the Saints 
Sophia and Irene, martyrs.&mdash;At Milan, St. Eustor- 
gius, first bishop of that city, highly commended by 
blessed Ambrose.&mdash;At Gortyna, in Crete, St. Eume- 
nus, bishop and confessor. 



SEPTEMBER. 289 



Cfte jQtneteemj) Dap of 

4 T Puzzoli, in Campania, the holy martyrs Janu- 
^ arius, bishop of Benevento, Festus, his deacon, 
and Desiderius, lector, together with Sosius, deacon 
of the church of Misenum, Proculus, deacon of Puz- 
zoli, Eutychius and Acutius, who were bound and 
imprisoned and then beheaded during the reign of 
Diocletian. The body of St. Januarius was brought 
to Naples, and buried in the church with due honors, 
where even now the blood of the blessed martyr is 
kept in a vial, and when placed close to his head, is 
seen to become liquid and, bubble up as if it were 
just taken from his veins.&mdash;At Nocera, the birthday 
of the holy martyrs Felix and Constantia, who suf- 
fered under Nero.&mdash;In Palestine, the holy martyrs 
Peleus, Nilus, and Elias, bishops in Egypt, who were, 
with many others of the clergy, consumed by fire for 
the sake of Christ during the persecution of Diocle- 
tian. The same day, the holy martyrs Trophimus, 
Sabbatius, and Dorymedon, senator, under the em- 
peror Probus. By command of the governor&mdash;Atti- 
cus, at Antioch, Sabbatius was scourged until he 
expired. Trophimus was sent to the governor Peren- 
nius at Synnada, where he and the senator Doryme- 
don consummated their martyrdom by decapitation, 
after enduring many torments.&mdash;At Cordova, in the 
Arabian persecution, St. Pomposa, virgin and mar- 
tyr.&mdash;At Canterbury, the holy bishop Theodore, who 

19 



290 SEPTEMBER. 

was sent to England by pope Vitalian, and was 
renowned for learning and holiness.&mdash;At Tours, St. 
Eustochius, bishop, a man of great virtue.&mdash;In the 
diocese of Langres, St. Sequanus, priest and con- 
fessor.&mdash;At Barcelona, in Spain, blessed Mary de 
Cervellione, virgin, of the Order of Our Lady of 
Ransom. She is commonly called Mary of Help on 
account of the prompt assistance she renders to 
those who invoke her. 



Cfte CtoenttetJ) Dap of September* 



nPHE vigil of St. Matthew, apostle and evangelist 
-*&mdash;At Rome, the holy martyrs Eustachius, and Theo- 
pistes, his wife, with their two sons, Agapitus and 
Theopistus. Under the emperor Adrian, they were 
condemned to be cast to the beasts, but through the 
power of God, being uninjured by them, they were 
shut up in a burning brazen ox, and thus terminated 
their martyrdom.&mdash;At Cyzicum, on the sea of Mar- 
mora, the birthday of the holy martyrs Pausta, 
virgin, and Evilasius, in the time of the emperor 
Maximian. Fausta had her head shaved to shame 
her, and was hanged up and tortured by Evilasius, 
then a Pagan priest ; but when he wished to have her 
body cut in two, the executioners could not inflict 
any injury on her. Amazed at this prodigy, Evila- 
sius believed in Christ; and whilst he was cruelly 



SEPTEMBER. 291 

tortured by order of the emperor, Fausta had her 
head bored through, and her whole body pierced 
with nails. She was then laid on a burning pan, 
and being called by a celestial voice, went in com- 
pany with Evilasius to enjoy the blessedness of 
heaven.&mdash;In Phrygia, the holy martyrs Denis and 
Privatus.&mdash;Also, St. Priscus, martyr, who, after 
having had his body pierced all over with daggers, 
was beheaded.&mdash;At Pergen, in Pamphylia, the Saints 
Theodore, his mother Philippa, and their fellow mar- 
tyrs, under the emperor Antoninus.&mdash;At Carthage, 
St. Candida, virgin and martyr; who, having all her 
body lacerated with whips, was crowned with mar- 
tyrdom, under the emperor Maximian.&mdash;Also, the 
holy martyr Susanna, daughter of Arthemius, a 
Pagan priest, and Martha. The same day, pope St. 
Agapitus, whose sanctity is attested by blessed 
Gregory the Great.&mdash;At Milan, St. Clicerius, bishop 
and confessor. 



Cfje Ctoemp*ftr0t Dap of 

FTRHE birthday of St. Matthew, apostle and evan- 
- gelist, who suffered martyrdom in Ethiopia, 
while engaged in preaching. The Gospel written 
by him in Hebrew was, by his own revelation, found 
in the time of the emperor Zeno, together with the 
relics of the blessed apostle Barnabas.&mdash;In the land 



292 SEPTEMBER. 

of Saar, the holy prophet Jonas, who was buried in 
Geth.&mdash;At Rome, St. Pamphilus, martyr.&mdash;At twenty 
miles from Eome, on the Claudian way, the martyr- 
dom of St. Alexander, bishop, in the time of the em- 
peror Antoninus. For the faith of Christ he was 
loaded with fetters scourged, tortured, burned with 
torches, torn with iron hooks, exposed to the beasts 
and cast into the flames, but having overcome all 
these torments, he was finally beheaded, and so at- 
tained the glory of eternal life. His body was after- 
wards carried into the city by the blessed pope Dam- 
asus, on the 26th of November, on which day his 
feast is to be celebrated by order of the same Pon- 
tiff.&mdash;In Phoenicia, St. Eusebius, martyr, who, of his 
own accord, went to the prefect, and declaring him- 
self a Christian, was subjected by him to many tor- 
ments, and finally beheaded.&mdash;In Cyprus, St. Isacius, 
bishop and martyr.&mdash;In the same place, St. Meletius, 
bishop and confessor.&mdash;In Ethiopia, St. Iphigenia, 
virgin, who being baptized and consecrated to God 
by the blessed apostle Matthew, ended her holy life 
in peace. 



C6e Ctoemp*seconD Dap of 

AT Valencia, in Spain, St. Thomas, of Villanova, 
^ archbishop and confessor, whose birthday is the 
8th of September.&mdash;At St. Maurice, near Sion, in 
Switzerland, the birthday of the holy Theban mar- 



SEPTEMBER. 293 

tyrs Maurice, Exuperius, Candidus, Victor,&mdash;Innocent, 
and Yitalis, with their companions of the same le- 
gion, whose martyrdom for the faith, in the time of 
Maximian, filled the world with the glory of their 
sufferings.&mdash;At Eome, the martyrdom of the holy 
virgins and martyrs Digna and Emerita, under Vale- 
rian and Gallienus. Their relics are kept in the 
church of St. Marcellus.&mdash;At Arpajon, near Paris, 
St. Jonas, priest and martyr, who went to France 
with St. Denis, and after being scourged by order of 
the prefect Julian, ended his martyrdom by the 
sword.&mdash;At Ratisbon, in Bavaria, St. Emmeramus, 
bishop and martyr, who, to deliver others, endured 
patiently a most cruel death for the sake of our Lord. 
At Antinoopolis, in Egypt, the holy martyrs Irais, 
an Alexandrian virgin, and her companions. Hav- 
ing gone out to draw water at a fountain near by, 
aand seeing a boat loaded with Christian confessors, 
she immediately left her vessel and joined them. 
Being conducted to the city with them, after many 
torments, she was the first to have her head struck 
off; and after her, priests, deacons, virgins, and all 
others underwent the same kind of death.&mdash;At 
Meaux, blessed Sanctinus, bishop, disciple of St. 
Denis, the Areopagite, who, being consecrated by 
him bishop of that city, was the first to preach the 
Gospel there.&mdash;In the territory of Coutances, St. 
Lauto, bishop.&mdash;In Poitou, the holy priest Floren- 
tius.&mdash;In the territory of Bourges, St. Sylvanus, con- 
fessor.&mdash;At Laon, St. Salaberga, abbess. 



294 SEPTEMBER. 



Cfte CtoentHtwO Dag of September, 

A T Rome, St. Linus, pope and martyr, who governed 
** the Roman church next after the blessed apostle 
Peter. He was crowned with martyrdom, and buried 
on the Vatican hill beside the same apostle.&mdash;At Ico- 
nium, in Lycaonia, St. Thecla, virgin and martyr, 
who was converted to the faith by the apostle St. 
Paul. Under the emperor Nero, she was victorious 
over the flames and the beasts to which she was ex- 
posed for the faith of Christ, and after many com- 
bats endured for the instruction of others, she went 
to Seleucia, where she ended her days in peace. Her 
memory has been eulogized by the Holy Fathers.&mdash;In 
Campania, the commemoration of blessed Sosius, dea- 
con of the church of Misenum. The holy bishop 
Januarius, seeing a flame arise from his head as he 
was reading the Gospel in the church, foretold that 
he would be a martyr; and not many days after, 
when he was thirty years of age, he and the holy 
bishop suffered martyrdom by decapitation.&mdash;In 
Africa, the holy martyrs Andrew, John, Peter, and 
Anthony.&mdash;In the diocese of Coutances, St. Paternus, 
bishop and martyr.&mdash;At Ancona, St. C.onstantius, 
sacristan of the Church, renowned for the gift of 
miracles.&mdash;In Spain, the holy women Xantippa and 
Polyxena, who were disciples of the Apostles. 



SEPTEMBER. 295 



Cfte CtoentHourtft Dap of 

fT)HE feast of our Lady of Ransom.&mdash;At Autun, 
the birthday of the holy martyrs, Andochius, 
priest, Thyrsus, deacon, and Felix, who were sent 
from the East by blessed Polycarp, bishop of Smyr- 
na, to preach in Gaul, where they were most severely 
scourged, hanged up a whole day by the hands, and 
cast into the fire. Remaining uninjured, they had 
their necks broken with heavy bars, and thus won a 
most glorious crown.&mdash;In Egypt, the holy martyrs 
Paphnutius and his companions. Whilst leading a 
solitary life, St. Paphnutius heard that many Chris- 
tians were kept in bonds, and, moved by the spirit of 
God, he voluntarily offered himself to the prefect, 
and freely confessed the Christian faith. By him he 
was bound with iron chains, and a long time tortured 
on the rack. Then, being sent with many others to 
Diocletian, he was fastened by his order to a palm 
tree, and the rest were struck with the sword.&mdash;At 
Chalcedon, forty-nine holy martyrs, who, after the 
martyrdom of St. Euphemia, under the emperor Dio- 
cletian, were condemned to be devoured by the beasts, 
but being miraculously delivered, were finally struck 
with the sword, and went to heaven.&mdash;In Hungary, 
St. Gerard, bishop and martyr, called the Apostle of 
the Hungarians. He belonged to the nobility of 
Venice, and was the first to shed upon his country 
the glory of martyrdom.&mdash;At Clermont, in Auvergne, 



296 SEPTEMBER. 

the departure out of this life of St. Rusticus, bishop 
and confessor.&mdash;In the diocese of Beauvais, St. Gere- 
marus, abbot. 



Cfie Ctoempsftftf) Dap of 

4 T Emmaus, the birthday of blessed Cleophas, dis- 
ciple of Christ. It is related that he was killed 
by the Jews, for the confession of our Lord, in the 
same house in which he had entertained Him, and 
where he was honorably buried.&mdash;At Rome, under 
the emperor Antoninus, St. Herculanus, soldier and 
martyr, who, being converted to Christ by the 
miracles wrought during the martyrdom of the, 
blessed bishop Alexander, was put to the sword, after 
enduring many torments.&mdash;At Amiens, in France, in 
the persecution of Diocletian, blessed Firmin, bishop. 
Under the governor Rictiovarus, after various tor- 
ments, he suffered martyrdom by being beheaded. 
At Damascus, the holy martyr Paul, Tata, his wife, 
and Sabinian, Maximus, Rufus, and Eugenius, their 
sons. Accused of professing the Christian religion, 
they were scourged, and tortured in other ways, until 
they gave up their souls to God.&mdash;In Asia, the holy 
martyrs Bardomian, Eucarpus, and twenty-six 
others. The same day, St. Anathalon, bishop, who 
was a disciple of the blessed apostle Barnabas, and 
succeeded him in the See of Milan.&mdash;At Lyons, the 



SEPTEMBER. 297 

decease of St. Lupus, at one time an anchoret, but 
later a bishop.&mdash;At Auxerre, St. Anacharius, bishop 
and confessor.&mdash;At Blois, St. Solemnius, bishop of 
Chartres, renowned for miracles. The same day, St. 
Principius, bishop of Soissons, brother of the blessed 
bishop Remigius.&mdash;At Anagni, the holy virgins Aure- 
lia and Neomisia.&mdash;At San Severino, the decease of 
St. Pacificus of St. Severin, confessor, of the Order 
of the Reformed Minorites of the Observance of St. 
Francis, illustrious by his extraordinary patience 
and love of solitude. He was placed in the calendar 
of saints by pope Gregory XVI. 



Cfte Ctoemp*0ttj) Dap of 

A T Nicomedia, the birthday of the holy martyrs 
^ Cyprian, and Justina, virgin. Under the em- 
peror Diocletian and the governor Eutholmius. 
Justina suffered much for the faith of Christ and 
converted Cyprian, who, while a magician, endeav- 
ored to bring her under the influence of his magical 
practices. She afterwards suffered martyrdom with 
him. Their bodies being exposed to the beasts, were 
taken away in the night by some Christian sailors, 
and carried to Rome. They were subsequently taken 
into the Constantinian basilica, and deposited near 
the baptistery.&mdash;At Rome, the holy martyr Callistra- 
tus, and forty-nine other soldiers, who endured mar- 



298 SEPTEMBER. 

tyrdorn together, in the persecution of Diocletian. 
The companions of Callistratus were converted to 
Christ on seeing him miraculously delivered from 
drowning in the sea, where he had been thrown 
sewed up in a bag.&mdash;Also, at Rome, pope St. Euse- 
bius.&mdash;At Bologna, St. Eusebius, bishop and con- 
fessor.&mdash;At Brescia, St. Vigilius, bishop.&mdash;At Albano, 
St. Senator.&mdash;In the territory of Frascati, the blessed 
abbot Mlus, founder of the monastery of Crypta- 
Ferrata, a man of eminent sanctity.&mdash;At Citta-di- 
Castello, St. Amantius, a priest distinguished for 
the gift of miracles. 



Cfte Ctoemg*0etient& Dap of 

AT AEgea, during the persecution of Diocletian, 
the birthday of the holy martyrs Cosmas and 
Damian, brothers. After miraculously overcoming 
many torments from bonds, imprisonment, fire, cruci- 
fixion, stoning, arrows, and from being cast into the 
sea, they received capital punishment. With them 
are said to have also suffered three of their brothers, 
Anthimus, Leontius, and Euprepius.&mdash;At Rome, St. 
Epicharis, wife of a senator, who, in the same perse- 
cution, was scourged with leaded whips, and struck 
with the sword.&mdash;At Todi, the holy martyrs Fiden- 
tius and Terence, under the same Diocletian.&mdash;At 
Cordova, the holy martyrs Adulphus and John, 



SEPTEMBER. 299 

brothers, who won the martyr's crown in the Ara- 
bian persecution.&mdash;At Sion, in Switzerland, St. 
Florentinus, martyr, who was put to the sword with 
blessed Hilary, after his tongue had been cut out. 
At Byblos, in Phoenicia, St. Mark, bishop, who is 
also called John by blessed Luke.&mdash;At Milan, the 
holy bishop Caius, a disciple of the blessed apostle 
Barnabas, who passed calmly to rest after suffering 
severely in the persecution of Nero.&mdash;At Ravenna, 
St. Aderitus, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Paris, St. 
Vincent de Paul, priest, and founder of the Congre- 
gation of the Mission and of the Daughters of 
Charity, an apostolic man and a father to the poor. 
His feast is celebrated on the 19th of July.&mdash;In the 
same city, St. Eleazar, count.&mdash;In Hainaut, St. Hil- 
trude, virgin. 



Cfte Ctoentp*eigJ)t!) Dap of September* 

TN Bohemia, St. Wenceslas, duke of Bohemia and 
* martyr, renowned for holiness and miracles. 
Being murdered in his brother's house, he went 
triumphantly to heaven.&mdash;At Rome, St. Privatus, 
martyr, who was cured of ulcers by the blessed pope 
Callistus. For the faith of Christ he was scourged 
to death with leaded whips, in the time of the em- 
peror Alexander.&mdash;In the same place, St. Stacteus, 
martyr.&mdash;In Africa, the Saints Martial, Lawrence, 



300 SEPTEMBER. 

and twenty other martyrs.&mdash;At Antioch, in Pisidia, 
the holy martyrs Mark, shepherd, Alphius, Alexan- 
der, and Zosimus, his brothers, Nicon, Neon Heli- 
odorus, and thirty soldiers, who were converted to 
Christ on seeing the miracles of blessed Mark, and 
were crowned with martyrdom in different places 
and in various manners. The same day, the martyr- 
dom of St. Maximus, under the emperor Decius.&mdash;At 
Toulouse, St. Exuperius, bishop and confessor. St. 
Jerome bears to this blessed man a memorable testi- 
mony, relating how severe he was towards himself 
and how liberal towards others.&mdash;At Genoa, St. Solo- 
mon, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Brescia, St. Silvinus, 
bishop. The same day, the holy virgin Eustochium, 
daughter of blessed Paula, who was brought up at 
the manger of our Lord with other virgins, and be- 
ing celebrated for merits, went to our Lord.&mdash;In 
Germany, St. Lioba, virgin, renowned for miracles. 



C6e Ctoemg*nitttf) Dap of September, 

AN Mount Gargano, the commemoration of the 
" blessed archangel Michael. This festival is 
kept in memory of the day, when under his invo- 
cation, was consecrated a church, unpretending in 
its exterior, but endowed with virtue celestial. 
In Thrace, the birthday of the holy martyrs Euty- 
chius, Plautus, and Heracleas.&mdash;In Persia, under 



SEPTEMBER. 301 

king Sapor, the holy martyr Gudelia. After hav- 
ing converted many to the faith, and refused to 
adore the sun and fire, she was subjected to numer- 
ous torments. Then having the skin torn off her 
head, and being fastened to a post, she deserved 
an eternal triumph.&mdash;In the same country, the holy 
martyrs Dadas, a blood relation of king Sapor, 
Casdoa, his wife, and Gabdelas, his son. After be- 
ing deprived of their dignities, and subjected to vari- 
ous torments, they were for a long time imprisoned 
and finally put to the sword.&mdash;In Armenia, the holy 
virgins, Ripsimus and her companions, martyrs, un- 
der king Tiridates.&mdash;At Auxerre, St. Fraternus, 
bishop and martyr.&mdash;At Pontecorvo, near Aquino, St. 
Grimoaldus, priest and confessor.&mdash;In Palestine, St. 
Quiriacus, anchoret. 



C&e Cftttttetj) Dap of September* 

TN Bethlehem of Juda, the decease of St. Jerome, 
priest and Doctor of the Church, who, excelling 
in all kinds of learning, imitated the life of the most 
approved monks, and disposed of many monstrous 
heresies with the sword of his doctrine. Having at 
length reached a very advanced age, he rested in 
peace, and was buried near the manger of our Lord. 
His body was afterwards conveyed to Rome, and 
deposited in the basilica of St. Mary the Greater. 



302 SEPTEMBER. 

The same day, the holy martyr Leopardus, of the 
household of Julian the Apostate. He was beheaded 
at Rome, and his body was subsequently taken to 
Aix-la-Chapelle.&mdash;At Soleure, in Switzerland, in the 
time of the emperor Maximian, the passion of the 
holy martyrs Victor and Ursus, of the glorius Theban 
legion, who were subjected to horrid tortures; but a 
heavenly light shining over them, and causing the 
executioners to fall to the ground, they were de- 
livered. Being then cast into the fire without sus- 
taining any injury, they finally perished by the 
sword.&mdash;At Piacenza, the holy martyr Antoninus, 
soldier of the same legion. The same day, St. 
Gregory, bishop of Greater Armenia, who after many 
sufferings under Diocletian, rested in peace.&mdash;At 
Canterbury, in England, St. Honorius, bishop and 
confessor.&mdash;At Rome, the birthday of St. Francis 
Borgia, of the Society of Jesus. His feast is cele- 
brated on the 10th of October.&mdash;In the same city, 
St. Sophia, widow, mother of the holy virgins Faith, 
Hope, and Charity. 




OCTOBER. 

Cfte Jfir0t Dap of October* 

|T Rheinis, in France, St. Remigius, bishop 
confessor, who converted the Franks to 
Christ, regenerated Clovis, their king, 
in the sacred font of baptism and in- 
structed him in the mysteries of . faith. After he 
had been many years bishop, and had distinguished 
himself by his sanctity and the power of working 
miracles, he departed this life on the 13th of Janu- 
ary. His festival, however, is kept on this day, when 
his sacred body was translated.&mdash;At Rome, blessed 
Aretas and five hundred and four other martyrs. 
At Tomis, in Pontus, the holy martyrs Priscus, 
Crescens, and Evagrius.&mdash;At Lisbon, in Portugal, 
the holy martyrs Verissimus, and his sisters, Max- 
ima and Julia, who suffered in the persecution of 
Diocletian.&mdash;At Tournay, St. Piaton, priest and 
martyr, who, with blessed Quinctinus and his com- 
panions, went from Rome to Gaul to preach the 
faith, and afterwards, in the persecution of Maxi- 
mian, having consummated his martyrdom, passed 
from earth to heaven.&mdash;At Thessalonica, St. Dom- 
ninus, martyr, under the same Maximian.&mdash;At 



304 OCTOBER. 

Ghent, St. Bavo, confessor.&mdash;At Orvieto, St. Severus, 
priest and confessor. 



Cfte >econO Dap of SDctobet* 

fTlHE feast of the holy Guardian Angels.&mdash;At Nio- 
media, St. Eleutherius, soldier and martyr, with 
numberless others. They were falsely accused of 
having set fire to the palace of Diocletian and, by 
order of this most cruel emperor, were barbarously 
massacred in groups. Some were put to the sword, 
some consumed by fire, while others were precipi- 
tated into the sea. But the principal one, Eleu- 
therius, having endured long tortures, and being 
found stronger after each one, terminated his vic- 
torious martyrdom by fire, as well-tried gold.&mdash;In 
the vicinity of Arras, the martyrdom of blessed 
Leodegarius, bishop of Autun. After being sub- 
jected to various insults and torments for the truth, 
he was put to death by Ebroin, chief minister of 
Theodoric.&mdash;Also, the holy martyr Gerinus, brother 
of the blessed Leodegarius, who was overwhelmed 
with stones in the same city.&mdash;At Antioch, the holy 
martyrs Primus, Cyril, and Secundarius.&mdash;At Con- 
stantinople, St. Theophilus, a monk, who was most 
cruelly scourged by Leo the Isaurian, for the defence 
of holy images, was driven into exile, and went 
gloriously to heaven.&mdash;At Hereford, in England, St. 
Thomas, bishop and confessor. 



OCTOBER. 305 

Cfte ClnrD Dap of SDcto&er. 

A T Rome, near the spot called Ursus Pileatus, St. 
Candidus, martyr. The same day the holy mar- 
tyrs Denis, Faustus, Cains, Peter, Paul, and four 
others, who suffered much under Decius; and under 
Valerian, being a long time subjected to torments by 
the governor AEmilian, merited the palm of martyr- 
dom. Among the ancient Saxons (in Westphalia), 
two holy martyrs of the name of Ewaldus, who be- 
ing priests and preaching Christ in that country, 
were seized by the Pagans and put to death. Dur- 
ing the night a great light appeared for a long time 
over their bodies, showing where they were, and how 
distinguished were their merits.&mdash;In Africa, St. 
Maximian, bishop of Bagay, who, after having fre- 
quently endured great cruelties from the Donatists, 
was finally cast headlong from a high tower, and 
left for dead. Illustrious by a glorious confession, 
he afterwards rested in the Lord.&mdash;In Palestine, St. 
Hesychius, confessor, disciple of St. Hilarion, and 
the companion of his travels.&mdash;In Belgium, in the 
diocese of Namur, St. Gerard, abbot. 



Cfte Jfouttf) Dap of flDctober. 

AT Assisi, in Umbria, the birthday of St. Francis, 
** confessor, founder of the Order of Minorites, 
whose life, filled with holy deeds and miracles, was 

20 



306 OCTOBER. 

.written by St. Bonaventure.&mdash;At Corinth, the birth- 
day of the Saints Crispus and Cams, who are men- 
tioned by the apostle St. Paul in his epistle to the 
Corinthians,&mdash;In Egypt, the holy martyrs Mark and 
Marcian, brothers, and an almost countless multi- 
tude of both sexes and of all ages, who merited the 
blessed crown of martyrdom, some after being 
scourged, and others when they had suffered horrible 
torment, after being delivered to the flames. Some 
were precipitated into the sea ; some others were be- 
headed; many were starved to death; others were 
fastened to gibbets; while others were suspended by 
the feet with their heads downward.&mdash;At Damascus, 
St. Peter, bishop and martyr, who, being accused 
before the king of the Agarenians of teaching the 
faith of Christ, had his tongue, hands, and feet cut 
off, and being fastened to a cross, ended his martyr- 
dom.&mdash;At Alexandria, the holy priests and deacons 
Caius, Faustus, Eusebius, Chseremon, Lucius, and 
their companions. Some of them were martyred in 
the persecution of Valerian ; others, for serving the 
martyrs, received the reward of martyrs.&mdash;At 
Athens, St. Hierotheus, disciple of the blessed 
apostle Paul.&mdash;At Bologna, St. Petronius, bishop 
and confessor, celebrated for learning, miracles and 
sanctity.&mdash;At Paris, St. Aurea, virgin. 



OCTOBER. 307 



C&e Jfiftf) Dap of SDctober, 

A T Messina, in Sicily, the birthday of the holy 
^ martyrs Placidus, monk, disciple of the blessed 
abbot Benedict, and of his brothers Eutychius and 
Victorinus, and Flavia, virgin, their sister; also of 
Donatus, Firmatus, deacon, Faustus, and thirty 
other monks, who were murdered for the faith of 
Christ by the pirate Manuchas. The same day, the 
birthday of blessed Thraseas, bishop of Eumenia, 
who ended his career by martyrdom at Smyrna. 
At Treves, the holy martyrs Palmatius and his com- 
panions, who suffered martyrdom in the persecution 
of Diocletian, under the governor Eictiovarus. The 
same day, under the emperor Diocletian and the 
ex-consul Domitius, St. Charitina, a virgin, who was 
exposed to the fire and thrown into the sea; but 
escaping uninjured, she had her hands and feet cut 
off, her teeth plucked out, and finally she yielded her 
spirit in prayer.&mdash;At Auxerre, the departure from 
this life of the saintly deacon Firmatus and the 
virgin Flaviana, his sister.&mdash;At Ravenna, St. Marcel- 
linus, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Valence, in France, 
St. Apollinaris, a bishop, who was renowned in life 
for virtues, and in death for miracles and prodigies. 

The same day, St.&mdash;Attilanus, bishop of Zamora, 
who was ranked among the saints by Urban II. 
At Leon, in Spain, St. Froilanus, bishop of that city, 
renowned for his zeal in spreading the monastic life, 



308 OCTOBER. " 

for his liberality to the poor and other virtues, and 
for miracles.&mdash;At Rome, St. Galla, widow, daughter 
of the consul Symmachus, who, after the death of 
her husband, remained many years near the church 
of St. Peter, applying to prayer, almsgiving, fasting, 
and other pious works. Her most happy death has 
been described by pope St. Gregory. 



Cfte >tet& Dap of SDcto&er, 

TN Calabria, St. Bruno, confessor, founder of the 
Carthusian Order.&mdash;At Laodicea, the blessed 
bishop and martyr Sagar, one of the first disciples 
of the apostle St. Paul.&mdash;At Capua, the birthday of 
the holy martyrs Marcellus, Castus, ^Emilius, and 
Saturninus.&mdash;At Agen, in France, the birthday of 
St. Faith, virgin and martyr, whose example en- 
couraged blessed Caprasius so much that he happily 
terminated his combat by martyrdom.&mdash;Also, St. 
Erotis, martyr, who, being inflamed with the love of 
Christ, triumphed over the violence of the flames. 
At Treves, the commemoration of almost numberless 
martyrs, who were put to death for the faith in 
various manners, under the governor Rictiovarus, in 
the persecution of Diocletian.&mdash;At Auxerre, St. 
Eomanus, bishop and martyr.&mdash;At Oderzo, St. Mag- 
nus, bishop, whose body rests at Venice.&mdash;At Naples, 
the decease of St. Mary Frances of the Five Wounds 



OCTOBER. 309 

of Our Lord, a nun of the Third Order of St. Francis. 
On account of her reputation for virtues and the 
working of miracles, she was placed among the holy 
virgins by Pius IX. 



Cfie Setoemft Dag of Dcto&er, 

fTHE feast of the Most Holy Rosary of the Blessed 
Virgin Mary, and the commemoration of Our 
Lady of Victory, which the sovereign Pontiff, blessed 
Pius V., on account of the great naval victory gained 
by the Christians on this day, ordered to be kept 
annually.&mdash;At Rome, on the Ardeatine road, the de- 
mise of St. Mark, pope and confessor.&mdash;In the prov- 
ince of the Euphrates, the holy martyrs Sergius and 
Bacchus, noble Romans, in the time of the emperor 
Maximian. Bacchus, being scourged with rough 
whips until his body was completely mangled, 
breathed his last in the confession of Christ. Sergius 
had his feet forced into shoes full of sharp-pointed 
nails, and, remaining unshaken in the faith, he was 
sentenced to undergo capital punishment. The 
place where he reposes is called after him Sergio- 
polis, and, on account of the signal miracles wrought 
in it, is honored by a great concourse of Christians. 
At Rome, the holy martyrs Marcellus and Apule- 
ius, who at first followed Simon Magus, but seeing 
the wonders which the Lord performed by the apostle 



310 OCTOBER. 

Peter, abandoned Simon, and embraced the apostoli- 
cal doctrine. After the death of the Apostles, under 
the ex-consul Aurelian, they won the crown of mar- 
tyrdom, and were buried near the city.&mdash;Also, in the 
province of the Euphrates, St. Julia, virgin, who 
endured martyrdom under the governor Marcian. 
At Padua, St. Justina, virgin and martyr, who was 
baptized by the blessed Prosdocimus, disciple of St. 
Peter. As she remained firm in the faith of Christ, 
she was put to the sword by order of the governor 
Maximus, and thus went to God.&mdash;At Bourges, St. 
Augustus, priest and confessor.&mdash;In the diocese of 
Rheims, St. Helanus, priest.&mdash;In Sweden, the trans- 
lation of the body of St. Bridget, widow. 



Cfie 4Eigi)tt) Dap of 2Dcto6er, 

GT Bridget, widow, who, after visiting many holy 
^ places by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, died 
at Rome on the 23d of July. Her body was taken to 
Sweden on the 7th of this month. The same day, the 
birthday of the blessed Simeon, an aged man, who, 
as we read in the Gospel, took our Lord Jesus in his 
arms.&mdash;At Caesarea, in Palestine, in the reign of 
Decius, St. Reparata, virgin and martyr, who, re- 
fusing to sacrifice to idols, was subjected to various 
kinds of torments, and finally struck with the sword. 
Her soul was seen to leave her body in the shape of a 



OCTOBER. 311 

dove, and ascend to heaven.&mdash;At Thessalonica, St. 
Demetrius, a proconsul, who, for having brought 
many to the faith of Christ, was pierced with spears 
by order of the emperor Maximian, and thus ended 
his martyrdom.&mdash;In the same place, St. Nestor, mar- 
tyr.&mdash;At Seville, in Spain, St. Peter, martyr.&mdash;At 
Laodicea, in the time of Diocletian, St. Artemon, a 
priest, who gained the crown of martyrdom by fire. 
In the diocese of Laon, St. Benedicta, virgin and 
martyr.&mdash;At Ancona, Saints Palatias and Laurentia, 
who were sent into exile in the persecution of Dio- 
cletian, under the governor Dion, and sank under the 
weight of toil and misery.&mdash;At Rouen, St. Evodius, 
bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Jerusalem, St. Pelagia, 
surnamed the Penitent. 



Cfte JSimi) Dap of 2Dcto6er, 

AT Paris, the birthday of the holy martyrs Denis 
" the Areopagite, bishop, Rusticus, priest, and 
Eleutherius, deacon. Denis was baptized by the 
apostle St. Paul, and consecrated first bishop of 
Athens. Then going to Rome, he was sent to Gaul 
by the blessed Roman Pontiff Clement, to preach 
the Gospel. He proceeded to Paris, and after hav- 
ing for some years faithfully filled the office en- 
trusted to him, he was subjected to the severest 
kinds of torments by the prefect Fescenninus, and 



312 OCTOBER. 

at length, being beheaded with his companions, com- 
pleted his martyrdom. The same day, the com- 
memoration of the holy patriarch Abraham, father 
of all believers.&mdash;At Julia (now Borgo-San-Don- 
nino), near Parma, on the Claudian road, St. Domni- 
nus, martyr, under the emperor Maximian. As he 
was trying to escape the raging persecution, he was 
overtaken by his pursuers, and being transpierced 
with a sword, died gloriously.&mdash;At Cassino, St. 
Deusdedit, abbot, who was cast into prison by the 
tyrant Sicardus, and being there consumed with 
hunger and misery, yielded up his soul.&mdash;In Hainaut, 
St. Gislenus, bishop and confessor, who, resigning 
his See, led the monastical life in a monastery built 
by himself, and was distinguished by many virtues. 
At Valencia, in Spain, St. Louis Bertrand, of the 
Order of Preachers, who, being filled with the apos- 
tolic spirit, confirmed, by the innocence of his life 
and the working of many miracles, the Gospel which 
he had preached in America.&mdash;At Jerusalem, the 
Saints Andronicus, and&mdash;Athanasia, his wife.&mdash;At 
Antioch, St. Publia, abbess, who, whilst Julian the 
Apostate was passing by, sang with her religious 
these words of David : "The idols of the Gentiles are 
silver and gold;" and: "Let them that make them, 
become like unto them." By the command of the 
emperor, she was struck on the face and severely re- 
buked. 



OCTOBER. 313 



Cfee Centft Dap of ^October, 

A T Rome, blessed John Leonard!, confessor, founder 
-** of the Congregation of Clerks Regular of the 
Mother of God. He was illustrious by his labors 
and miracles, and through his instrumentality mis- 
sions were established by the Propaganda.&mdash;In the 
island of Crete, blessed Pinytus, most noble among 
the bishops. He was bishop of Gnosia, and flour- 
ished under Marcus Antoninus Verus and Lucius 
Aurelius Commodus. He left in his writings, as in 
a mirror, a vivid delineation of himself.&mdash;At Cologne, 
in the persecution of Maximian, St. Gereon, martyr, 
with three hundred and eighteen others, who patient- 
ly bowed their necks to the sword for the true re- 
ligion.&mdash;In the neighborhood of the same city, the 
holy martyrs Victor and his companions.&mdash;At Bonn, 
in Germany, the holy martyrs Cassius and Floren- 
tius, with many others.&mdash;At Nicomedia, the holy 
martyrs Eulampius, and his sister, the virgin Eulam- 
pia, who, hearing that her brother was tortured for 
Christ, rushed through the crowd, embraced him and 
became his companion. Both were cast into a 
caldron of boiling oil, but being quite uninjured, 
they terminated their martyrdom by decapitation 
with two hundred others, who, impressed by the 
miracle, had believed in Christ.&mdash;At York, in Eng- 
land, the holy bishop Paulinus, disciple of the blessed 
pope Gregory. Being sent thither by that pope with 



314 OCTOBER. 

others to preach the Gospel, he converted king Ed- 
win and his people to the faith of Christ.&mdash;At 
Piombino, in Tuscany, St. Cerbonius, bishop and 
confessor, who, as St. Gregory relates, was renowned 
for miracles, both during life and after death.&mdash;At 
Verona, another St. Cerbonius, bishop.&mdash;At Capua, 
St. Paulinus, bishop.&mdash;At Rome, St. Francis Borgia, 
Superior General of the Society of Jesus, celebrated 
for the austerity of his life, the gift of prayer, and 
for the firmness with which he renounced the digni- 
ties of the world, and refused those of the Church. 



C|)e (Eletoentft Dap of 2Dcto6er, 

AT Tarsus, in Cilicia, the birthday of the holy 
-^ martyrs Tharacus, Probus, and Andronicus, 
who endured a long and painful imprisonment, dur- 
ing the persecution of Diocletian, and being three 
times subjected to diverse punishments and tortures, 
finally obtained a glorious triumph for the confession 
of Christ by having their heads struck off.&mdash;In Vexin, 
in the time of the governor Fescenninus, the passion 
of the holy martyrs Nicasiuc, bishop of Eouen, 
Quirinus, priest, Scubiculus, deacon, and Pientia, 
virgin.&mdash;Also, the martyrdom of the Saints Anas- 
tasius, priest, Placidus, Genesius, and their com- 
panions.&mdash;In Thebais, St. Sarmata, disciple of the 
blessed abbot Anthony, who was put to death for 



OCTOBER. 315 

Christ by the Saracens.&mdash;At Besancon, in France, 
St. Germanus, bishop and martyr.&mdash;At Uzes, in Nar- 
bonese Gaul, St. Firminus, bishop and confessor.&mdash;In 
Ireland, St. Kenny, abbot.&mdash;At Lier, in Belgium, the 
departure from this life of St. Gummarus, confessor. 
At Rennes, St. AEmilian, confessor.&mdash;At Tarsus, in 
Cilicia, the holy women Zenaides and Philonilla, 
sisters, who were relatives of the blessed apostle 
Paul, and his disciples in the faith.&mdash;At Verona, St. 
Placidia, virgin.&mdash;At Calotium, a place now in the 
diocese of Asti, but formerly in that of Pavia, St. 
Alexander Sauli, bishop and confessor, of the congre- 
gation of Barnabites, a man illustrious by birth, 
learning and miracles. 



Cfie Ctoelftf) Dap of October, 

A T Home, the holy martyrs Evagrius, Priscian, and 
" their companions.&mdash;At Ravenna, on the Lauretine 
road, the birthday of St. Edistius, martyr.&mdash;In Lycia, 
St. Domnina, martyr, under the emperor Diocletian. 

In Africa, four thousand nine hundred and sixty- 
six holy confessors and martyrs, in the persecution of 
the Vandals under the Arian king Hunneric. Some 
of them were bishops, some priests and deacons, with 
a multitude of the faithful accompanying them, who 
were driven into a frightful wilderness for the de- 
fence of the Catholic truth. Many of them were 
cruelly annoyed by the Moorish leaders, and with 



316 OCTOBER. 

sharp-pointed spears and stones forced to hasten 
their march, whilst others, with their feet tied, were 
dragged like corpses through rough places and man- 
gled in all their limbs. They were finally tortured 
in different manners, and won the honors of martyr- 
dom. The principal among them were the bishops 
Felix and Cyprian.&mdash;At Cilly, in Styria, St. Maxi- 
milian, bishop of Lorch.&mdash;At York, in England, St. 
Wilfrid, bishop and confessor,&mdash;At Milan, St. Monas, 
bishop. He was chosen as head of that church, be- 
cause a miraculous light from heaven surrounded 
him whilst they were deliberating on the choice of a 
bishop.&mdash;At Verona, St. Salvinus, bishop.&mdash;In 
Syria, St. Eustachius, priest and confessor.&mdash;At 
Ascoli, St. Seraphinus, confessor, of the Order of 
Minorite Capuchins, distinguished by holiness of 
life and humility. He was enrolled among the 
saints by the Sovereign Pontiff, Clement XIII. 



Cfje CfnrteentJ) Dap of SDcto&er, 

TN England, St. Edward, king, who died on the 
* 5th of January. He is specially honored on this 
day, on account of the translation of his body. 
At Troas, in Asia Minor, the birthday of St. Carpus, 
disciple of the blessed apostle Paul.&mdash;At Cordova, in 
Spain, the birthday of the holy martyrs Faustus, 
Januarius, and Martial. First tortured on the rack, 



OCTOBER. 317 

then having their eyelashes shaven, their teeth 
plucked out, their ears and nosefe cut off, they 
finished their martyrdom by fire.&mdash;At Thessalonica, 
St. Florentius, a martyr, who, after enduring various 
torments, was burned alive.&mdash;In Austria, St. Colman, 
martyr.&mdash;At Ceuta, in Morocco, seven martyrs of the 
Order of Friars Minor, Daniel, Samuel, Angelus, 
Domnus, Leo, Nicholas, and Hugolinus. For preach- 
ing the Gospel and refuting the errors of Mahomet, 
they were reviled, bound, and scourged by the Sara- 
cens, and finally won the palm of martyrdom by be- 
ing beheaded.&mdash;At Antioch, the holy bishop Theo- 
philus, who held the pontificate in that church, the 
sixth after the blessed apostle Peter.&mdash;At Tours, St. 
Venantius, abbot, and confessor.&mdash;At Subiaco, in 
Italy, St. Chelidonia, virgin. 



Cfte Jfoimeentf) Dap of flDcto&er, 

AT Rome, on the Aurelian road, the birthday of 
** blessed Callistus, pope and martyr. By order 
of the emperor Alexander, after being a long time 
kept in prison without food, and daily scourged 
with rods, he was finally hurled from the window 
of the house in which he had been shut up, and cast 
into a well, and thus merited the triumph awarded 
to conquerors.&mdash;At Caesarea, in Palestine, St. Fortu- 
nata, virgin and martyr, during the persecution of 



318 OCTOBER. 

Diocletian. After having been subjected to the rack, 
to fire, to the teeth of beasts and other torments, she 
gave up her soul to God. Her body was afterwards 
conveyed to Naples, in Campania.&mdash;Also, the Saints 
Carponius, Evaristus, and Priscian, brothers of the 
said blessed Fortunata, who having their throats 
cut, obtained likewise the crown of martyrdom. 
Also, the Saints Saturninus and Lupus.&mdash;At Rimini, 
St. Gaudentius, bishop and martyr.&mdash;At Todi, St. 
Fortunatus, bishop, who, as is mentioned by blessed 
Gregory, was endowed with an extraordinary gift for 
casting out unclean spirits.&mdash;At Wurtzburg, St. 
Burchard, first bishop of that city.&mdash;At Bruges, in 
Belgium, St. Donatian, bishop of Rheims.&mdash;At 
Treves, St. Rusticus, bishop. The same day, the de- 
parture out of this world of St. Dominic Loricatus. 
In Italy, St. Bernard, confessor. 



Cfie jFtfteemfi Dag of 2Dcto6er, 

A T Avila, in Spain, St. Theresa, virgin, mother and 
^ mistress of the Carmelite Brothers and Sisters 
of the Strict Observance.&mdash;At Rome, on the Aurelian 
road, St. Fortunatus, martyr.&mdash;At Cologne, the 
birthday of three hundred holy martyrs, who termi- 
nated their combat in the persecution of Maximian. 
At Carthage, St. Agileus, martyr, on whose birth- 
day St. Augustine preached his panegyric.&mdash;In 



OCTOBER. 319 

Prussia, St. Bruno, bishop of the Euthenians and 
martyr, who, preaching the Gospel in that region, 
was arrested by impious men, had his hands and 
feet cut off and was beheaded.&mdash;At Lyons, St. 
Antiochus, bishop, who entered the heavenly king- 
dom after having courageously fulfilled the duties of 
the high station to which he had been called.&mdash;At 
Treves, St. Severus, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Stras- 
burg, St. Aurelia, virgin.&mdash;At Cracow, St. Hedwiges, 
duchess of Poland, who devoted herself to the ser- 
vice of the poor, and was renowned for miracles. 
She was inscribed among the saints by pope Clement 
IV., and&mdash;Innocent XI. permitted her feast to be 
celebrated on the 17th of this month.&mdash;In Germany, 
St. Thecla, abbess. 



Cfce Sfeteentf) Dap of SDctofier, 

TN Africa, two hundred and seventy holy martyrs 
crowned together.&mdash;In the same country, the 
Saints Martinian and Saturnian with their two 
brothers.&mdash;In the reign of the Arian king Genseric, 
while the persecution of the Vandals was raging, 
they were slaves belonging to a man of that race, 
and being converted to the faith of Christ by 
Maxima, a slave like themselves, they manifested 
their attachment to the truth with such courage, 
that they were beaten with rough clubs and lacer- 



320 OCTOBER. 

ated in all parts of their bodies to the very bone. 
Although this barbarous treatment was continued 
for a considerable period, their wounds were each 
time healed over night, wherefore they were at 
length sent into exile. There they converted many 
barbarians to the faith, and obtained -from the 
Roman Pontiff a priest and other ministers to bap- 
tize them. Finally they were condemned to die by 
being dragged through thorns, with their feet tied 
behind running chariots. Maxima being miraculous- 
ly delivered after enduring many tribulations, be- 
came the Superioress of a large monastery of virgins, 
where she ended her days in peace.&mdash;Also, the Saints 
Saturninus, Nereus, and three hundred and sixty- 
five other martyrs.&mdash;At Cologne, St. Eliphius, mar- 
tyr, under Julian the Apostate.&mdash;Also, St. Berchar- 
ius, abbot and martyr. Near Bourges, St. Ambrose, 
bishop of Cahors.&mdash;At Mayence, St. Lullus, bishop 
and confessor.&mdash;At Treves, St. Florentinus, bishop. 
At Arbon, in Switzerland, St. Gall, abbot, disciple of 
blessed Columban. On Mount Cassino, blessed 
Victor III., who succeeded Gregory VII. in the papal 
chair and threw new lustre rounjd the Holy See by the 
signal triumph he gained over the Saracens through 
the divine assistance. The veneration paid to him 
from time immemorial Pope Leo XIII. approved and 
confirmed.&mdash;At Muro, in Lucania, St. Gerard Majella, 
a professed lay brother in the Congregation of the 
Most Holy Redeemer. Pius X., on account of his 
reputation for miracles ranked him among the saints. 



OCTOBER. 321 



Cfte Sefcenteemfi Dap of 2Dcto6er* 

rriHE feast of St. Hedwiges, widow, duchess of Po- 
- land, who went to her rest in the Lord on the 15th 
of this month.&mdash;At Antioch, the birthday of St. 
Heron, disciple of blessed Ignatius. Being made 
bishop after him, he religiously followed his mas- 
ter's footsteps, and, as a true lover of Christ, died 
for the flock entrusted to his keeping. The same 
day, the martyrdom of the Saints Victor, Alexander, 
and Marian.&mdash;In Persia, St. Mamelta, martyr, who, 
being converted from idolatry to the faith by an 
angel, was stoned by the Gentiles and cast into a 
deep lake.&mdash;At Constantinople, during the reign of 
Constantine Copronymus, St. Andrew of Crete, a 
monk, who was often scourged for the worship of 
holy images, and finally, after having one of his feet 
cut off, breathed his last.&mdash;At Orange, in France, St. 
Florentinus, bishop, who died leaving a reputation 
for many virtues.&mdash;At Capua, St Victor, a bishop, 
distinguished for erudition and sanctity. 



Cfie (Cfg&teettti) Dap of 

fTlHE birthday of blessed Luke, evangelist, who, 

after having suffered much for the name of 

Christ, died in Bithynia, filled with the Holy Ghost. 

21 



322 OCTOBER. 

His relics were taken to Constantinople, and thence 
conveyed to Padua.&mdash;At Antioch, St. Asclepiades, 
bishop, one of the celebrated troop of martyrs who 
suffered gloriously under Macrinus.&mdash;In the diocese 
of Beauvais, St. Justus, martyr, who, being but a 
boy, was put to death in the persecution of Diocle- 
tian, under the governor Rictiovarus.&mdash;At Neocae- 
sarea, in Pontus, the holy and learned bishop&mdash;Atheno- 
dorus, brother of St. Gregory Thaumaturgus, who 
underwent martyrdom in the persecution of Aure- 
lian.&mdash;In Mesopotamia, on the bank of the Euphra- 
tes, St. Julian, hermit.&mdash;At Rome, the birthday of 
St. Paul of the Cross, confessor, founder of the Con- 
gregation of the Cross and Passion of Our Lord 
Jesus Christ, whom Pius IX. canonized on account 
of his remarkable innocence of life and his peniten- 
tial spirit, assigning the 28th of April as the day of 
his festival.&mdash;At Rome, St. Tryphonia, at one time 
wife of the Caesar Decius. She was buried in a 
crypt, near St. Hippolytus. 



Cfte J!3ineteenti) Dag of SDctoftet. 

A T Arenas, in Spain, St. Peter of Alcantara, con- 
" fessor, of the Order of Minorites, who was conon- 
ized by Clement IX. on account of his admirable 
penance and many miracles.&mdash;At Rome, the birthday 
of the holy martyrs Ptolemy and Lucius, under Mar- 
cus Antoninus. The former, as we learn from the 



OCTOBER. 323 

martyr Justin, having converted an immodest woman 
to the faith of Christ, and taught her to practise 
chastity, was accused by a profligate man before the 
prefect Urbicius, and condemned to languish a long 
time in a filthy dungeon.&mdash;At length, as he declared 
by a public confession that Christ was his master, 
he was led to execution. Lucius disapproving the 
sentence of Urbicius, and avowing freely that he was 
a Christian, received the same sentence. To them 
was added a third, who was condemned to suffer a 
like punishment.&mdash;At Antioch, the holy martyrs 
Beronicus, the virgin Pelagia and forty-nine others. 
In Egypt, St. Varus, soldier, under the emperor 
Maximinus. He used to visit and comfort seven 
saintly monks detained in prison, when one of them 
happening to die, he wished to take his place, and 
having suffered with them cruel afflictions, he ob- 
tained the palm of martyrdom.&mdash;At Evreux, St. 
Aquilinus, bishop and confessor.&mdash;In the diocese of 
Orleans, the departure from this world of St. Vera- 
nus, bishop.&mdash;At Salerno, St. Eusterius, bishop.&mdash;In 
Ireland, St. Ethbin, abbot.&mdash;At Oxford, in England, 
St. Frideswide, virgin. 



Cfte Ctoentiet!) Dap of flDcto&et, 

T N Poland, St. John Cantius, priest and confessor. 

Being glorious for virtues and miracles, he was 

inscribed among the saints by the Sovereign Pon- 



324 OCTOBER. 

tiff, Clement XIII.&mdash;At Abia, near Aquila, in Abruz- 
zo, the birthday of blessed Maximus, deacon and 
martyr, who, through the desire of suffering, pre- 
sented himself to the persecutors that sought him. 
After answering with great constancy, he was racked 
and tortured, then beaten with rods, and finally he 
died by being precipitated from an elevated place. 
At Agen, in France, St. Caprasius, martyr. As he 
was hiding himself in a cavern to avoid the violence 
of the persecution, the report of the blessed virgin 
Faith's courage in suffering for Christ animated him 
to endure torments, and he prayed to God that, if he 
were deemed worthy of the glory of martyrdom, 
clear water might flow from the rock of his cavern. 
God having granted his prayer, he went with confi- 
dence to the scene of combat, and after a valiant 
struggle, merited the palm of martyrdom under 
Maximian.&mdash;At Antioch, St. Artemius, imperial offi- 
cer. Although he had filled high stations in the 
army under Constantine the Great, Julian the Apos- 
tate, whom he had reprehended for his cruelty to- 
wards Christians, ordered him to be beaten with 
rods, subjected to other torments, and finally be- 
headed.&mdash;At Cologne, the martyrdom of the holy 
virgins Martha and Saula, with many others.&mdash;At 
Minden, the birthday of St. Felician, bishop and 
martyr.&mdash;At Paris, the holy martyrs, George, deacon, 
and Aurelius.&mdash;In Portugal, St. Irene, virgin and 
martyr.&mdash;In the diocese of Rheims, St. Sindulphus, 
confessor. 



OCTOBER. 325 



C&e toentg*ftr0t Dag of 2Dcto6er, 

TN Cyprus, the birthday of the holy abbot Hilarion. 
His life, full of virtues and miracles, was writ- 
ten by St. Jerome.&mdash;At Cologne, the birthday of the 
Saints Ursula and her companions, who gained the 
martyrs' crown by being massacred by the Huns for 
the Christian religion and their constancy in keep- 
ing their virginity. Many of their bodies were de- 
posited at Cologne.&mdash;At Ostia, St. Asterius, priest 
and martyr, who suffered under the emperor Alex- 
ander, as we read in the Acts of the blessed pope 
Callistus.&mdash;At Nicomedia, the birthday of the Saints 
Dasius, Zoticus, Caius, and twelve other soldiers, 
who, after suffering various torments, were sub- 
merged in the sea.&mdash;At Maronia, near Antioch, in 
Syria, St. Malchus, monk.&mdash;At Lyons, St. Viator, 
deacon of blessed Justus, bishop of that city.&mdash;At 
Laon, St. Cilinia, mother of blessed Remigius, bishop 
of Eheims. 



Cfte Ctoemg'geconD Dap of 2Dcto6er, 

IT Jerusalem, the blessed bishop Mark, a cele- 
^ brated and learned man, who was the first Gentile 
that governed the chuch of Jerusalem. His brief 
episcopate was rewarded by the palm of martyrdom, 
under the emperor Antoninus.&mdash;At Adrianople, in 
Thrace, the birthday of the holy martyrs Philip, 



326 OCTOBER. 

bishop, Severus, priest, Eusebius, and Hermes, who, 
after being imprisoned and scourged, were burned 
alive, in the time of Julian the Apostate.&mdash;Also, the 
holy martyrs Alexander, bishop, Heracilus, soldier, 
and their companions.&mdash;At Fermo, in the Marches, 
St. Philip, bishop and martyr.&mdash;At Huesca, in Spain, 
the holy virgins Nunilo and Alodia, sisters, who en- 
dured martyrdom by being condemned to capital 
punishment by the Saracens for the confession of 
the faith.&mdash;At Cologne, St. Cordula, one of the com- 
panions of St. Ursula, who, being terrified at the 
torments and slaughter of the other virgins, hid her- 
self, but soon repenting, came forward the next day, 
and last of all received the crown of martyrdom. 
At Hierapolis, in Phrygia, St. Abercius, bishop, who 
flourished under the emperor Marcus Antoninus. 
At Rouen, St. Melanius, bishop, who was ordained 
by pope St. Stephen, and sent thither to preach the 
Gospel.&mdash;In Tuscany, St. Donatus, of Scotland, 
bishop of Fiesoli.&mdash;At Verona, St. Verecundus, 
bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Jerusalem, St. Mary Sa- 
lome, who, as we read in the Gospel, piously attended 
to the burial of our Lord. 



Cfie CtoentHfnrD Dap of 2Dctobet, 

IN the territory of Ossuma, in Spain, near Cadiz, 
the holy martyrs Servandus and Germanus, in 
the persecution of Diocletian, under the lieutenant 



OCTOBER. 327 

Viator. After being subjected to scourging, im- 
prisonment in a foul dungeon, want of food and 
drink, and the fatigue of a very long journey, which 
they had to perform loaded with fetters, they at 
length reached the term of their martyrdom by hav- 
ing their heads stricken off. Germanus was buried 
at Merida, and Servandus at Seville.&mdash;At Antioch, in 
Syria, the birthday of the holy priest Theodore, who 
was arrested in the persecution of the impious 
Julian. After being racked, after suffering many 
severe torments, and the burning of his sides with 
torches, as he persevered in the confession of Christ, 
he was put to the sword, and thus consummated his 
martyrdom.&mdash;At Granada, in Spain, blessed Peter 
Paschasius, bishop of Jaen and martyr, of the Order 
of Mercedarians. He suffered on the 6th of Decem- 
ber.&mdash;At Constantinople, St. Ignatius, bishop, who, 
for having reproved the emperor Bardas for putting 
away his wife, was subjected by him to many insults 
and driven into banishment. Being restored to his 
See by the Roman Pontiff Nicholas, he finally rested 
in peace.&mdash;At Bordeaux, St. Severin, bishop of Co- 
logne and confessor.&mdash;At Rouen, St. Romanus, 
bishop.&mdash;At Salerno, St. Verus, bishop.&mdash;In Picardy, 
St. Domitius, priest.&mdash;In Poitou, St. Benedict, con- 
fessor. Near Villack, in Hungary, St. John of Capis- 
tran, confessor, of the Order of Minorites, illustrious 
by the sanctity of his life, and his zeal for the prop- 
agation of the Catholic faith. By his prayers and 



328 OCTOBER. 

miracles, he routed a most powerful army of Turks 
and forced them to raise the seige of Belgrade. 



Cfie CtoentHourtl) Dap of ffl)cto&er, 

A T Venosa, in Basilicata, the birthday of the holy 
" martyrs Felix, African bishop, Audactus and 
Januarius, priests, Fortunatus and Septimus, lectors. 
In the time of Diocletian, after having been a long 
time loaded with fetters, and imprisoned in Africa 
and Sicily by the governor Magdellian, as Felix re- 
fused absolutely to deliver the sacred books, accord- 
ing to the emperor's edict, they finally closed their 
lives by being beheaded.&mdash;At Nagran, in Arabia 
Felix, the passion of the Saint Aretas and his com- 
panions, to the number of three hundred and forty, 
in the time of the emperor Justin, under the Jewish 
tyrant Dunaan. After them was burned alive a 
Christian woman, whose son, five years old, con- 
fessed Christ lisping, and as he could neither by 
caresses nor threats be stopped, he rushed into the 
fire in which his mother was burning.&mdash;At Cologne, 
St. Evergistus, bishop and martyr.&mdash;At Constanti- 
nople, St. Proclus, bishop.&mdash;In Bretagne, the de- 
parture from this life of St. Maglorious, bishop, 
whose body rests at Paris.&mdash;In Campania, St. Mark, 
solitary, whose renowned actions have been recorded 
by St. Gregory. 



OCTOBER. 329 



Dag of 2Dcto6et 

AT Rome, the holy martyrs Chrysanthus, and his 
** wife Daria. After many sufferings endured 
for Christ, under the prefect Celerinus, they were 
ordered by the emperor Numerian to be thrown 
into a sandpit on the Salarian road, where, being 
overwhelmed with earth and stones, they were 
buried alive.&mdash;Also, at Eome, the birthday of forty- 
six holy soldiers, who were baptized together by 
pope Denis, and soon after beheaded by order of 
the emperor Claudius. They were buried on the 
Salarian way, with one hundred and twenty-one 
other martyrs. Among them are named four sol- 
diers of Christ Theodosius, Lucius, Mark and Peter. 
At Soissons, in France, in the persecution of Dio- 
cletian, the holy martyrs Crispin and Crispinian, 
noble Romans. Under the governor Rictiovarus, 
after horrible torments, they were put to the sword, 
and thus obtained the crown of martyrdom. Their 
bodies were afterwards conveyed to Rome, and en- 
tombed with due honors in the church of St. 
Lawrence, in Panisperna.&mdash;At Florence, St. Minias, 
a soldier, who fought valorously for the faith of 
Christ and was gloriously crowned with martyrdom 
during the reign of Decius.&mdash;At Torres, in Sardinia, 
the holy martyrs Protus, priest, and Januarius, dea- 
con, who, being sent to that island by pope St. Caius, 
were put to death, under the governor Barbarus, in 



330 OCTOBER. 

the reign of Diocletian.&mdash;At Constantinople, the 
martyrdom of the Saints Martyrius, sub-deacon, and 
Marcian, chanter, who were murdered by the heretics, 
under the emperor Qonstantius.&mdash;At Eome, St. 
Boniface, pope and confessor.&mdash;At Perigueux, in 
France, St. Fronto, who, being made bishop by the 
blessed apostle Peter, converted to Christ, with a 
priest named George, a large number of the people 
of that place, and, renowned for miracles, rested in 
peace.&mdash;At Brescia, the birthday of St. Gaudentius, 
bishop, distinguished by his learning and holiness. 
At Javols, St. Hilary, bishop. 



Cfte Ctoemg'Stetl) Dap of SDctober, 

AT Rome, in the time of the emperor Adrian, St. 
" Evaristus, pope and martyr, who enriched the 
Church of God with his blood.&mdash;In Africa, the holy 
martyrs Rogatian, priest, and Felicissimus, who 
received the bright crown of martyrs, in the perse- 
cution of Valerian and Gallienus. They are men- 
tioned by St. Cyprian in his epistle to the Confes- 
sors.&mdash;At Nicomedia, the holy martyrs Lucian, 
Florius and their companions. The same day, St. 
Quodvultdeus, bishop of Carthage. By the Arian 
king Genseric, he and his clergy were put on board 
of leaking boats without oars or sails, but beyond 
all expectations he landed at Naples, and there in 



OCTOBER. 331 

exile died a confessor.&mdash;At Narbonne, St. Rusticus, 
bishop and confessor, who flourished in the time 
of the emperors Valentinian and Leo.&mdash;At Salerno, 
St. Gaudiosus, bishop.&mdash;At Pavia, St. Fulk, bishop. 
At Hildesheim, in Saxony, St. Bernward, bishop 
and confessor, who was ranked among the saints by 
Celestine III.&mdash;Also, St. Quadragesimus, sub-dea- 
con, who raised a dead man to life. 



Cfie Ctoemp*0etoent|) Dap of 2Dcto6er, 

fTIHE vigil of the holy apostles Simon and Jude. 
At Avila, in Spain, the Saints Vincent, Sabina 
and Christeta, who were first stretched on the rack 
in such a manner that all their limbs were dislocated ; 
then stones being laid on their heads, and their 
brains beaten out with heavy bars, they terminated 
their martyrdom under the governor Dacian.&mdash;At 
Tilchatel, St. Florentius, martyr.&mdash;In Cappadocia, 
the holy martyrs Capitolina, and Erotheides, her 
handmaid, who suffered under Diocletian.&mdash;In&mdash;India, 
St. Frumentius, bishop. While he was a captive 
there he was consecrated bishop by St.&mdash;Athanasius, 
and preached the Gospel in that country.&mdash;In Ethi- 
opia, St. Elesbaan, king, who, after having defeated 
the enemies of Christ and sent his royal diadem to 
Jerusalem, in the time of the emperor Justin, led a 
monastical life, as he had vowed, and went to his 
reward. 



332 OCTOBER. 



C6e Ctoentp*ei0t)ti) Dap of 2Dcto6er* 

IT1HE birthday of the blessed apostles Simon the 
Cananean, and Thaddeus, who is called Jude. 
Simon preached the Gospel in Egypt, Thaddeus in 
Mesopotamia. Afterwards, entering Persia together, 
they converted to Christ a numberless multitude of 
the inhabitants, and then underwent martyrdom. 
At Rome, in the reign of Claudius, St. Cyrilla, vir- 
gin, daughter of St. Tryphonia, who was pierced 
through the throat for the faith of Christ.&mdash;In the 
same city, the holy martyrs Anastasia the Elder, 
virgin, and Cyril.&mdash;In the persecution of Valerian, 
under the prefect Probus, Anastasia was bound with 
chains, buffeted, subjected to fire and scourging, and, 
as she remained immovable in the confession of 
Christ, her breasts were cut off, her nails plucked 
out, her teeth broken, and her hands, feet and head 
severed from her body. Bedecked with her suffer- 
ings as with so many jewels, she went to her spouse. 
At her request, Cyril gave her some water to drink, 
and for his reward became a martyr.&mdash;At Como, St. 
Fidelis, martyr, under the emperor Maximian.&mdash;At 
Mayence, St. Ferrutius, martyr.&mdash;At Meaux, SL 
Faro, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Naples, St. Gaudio- 
sus, an African bishop, who came to Campania be- 
cause of the persecution of the Vandals, and closed 
peacefully his holy career in a monastery near that 
city.&mdash;At Vercelli, St. Honoratus, bishop. 



I 



OCTOBER. 333 



Cfie Ctoemg*mmft Dap of 2Dctofcer. 

N Lucania, the holy martyrs Hyacinthus, Quinc- 
tus, Felician and Lucius.&mdash;At Sidon, in Phoe- 
nicia, St. Zenobius, a priest. Whilst the last perse- 
cution was raging, by exhorting others to martyrdom, 
he was himself deemed worthy of it. The same day, 
the holy bishops Maximilian, martyr, and Valentine, 
confessor.&mdash;At Bergamo, St. Eusebia, virgin and 
martyr.&mdash;At Jerusalem, the birthday of blessed Nar- 
cissus, a bishop distinguished for holiness, patience 
and faith, who went to the kingdom of God at the 
age of one hundred and sixteen years.&mdash;At Autun, 
St. John, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Cassiope, in the 
island of Corfu, St. Donatus, mentioned by the 
blessed pope Gregory.&mdash;At Vienne, the departure 
from this world of blessed Theodore, abbot. 



Cfie Cfrirtietft Dap of 2Dcto6er, 

TN Africa, the birthday of two hundred and twenty 
holy martyrs.&mdash;At Tangier, in Morocco, St. Mar- 
cellus, a centurion, who endured martyrdom by be- 
ing beheaded under the vice-prefect Agricolaus.&mdash;At 
Alexandria, in the reign of Decius, thirteen holy 
martyrs, who suffered with Saints Julian, Eunus 
and Macarius.&mdash;In the same place, St. Eutropia, 



334 OCTOBER. 

martyr, who visited the martyrs, and was so cruelly 
tortured with them that she breathed her last.&mdash;At 
Cagliari, in Sardinia, St. Saturninus, martyr, who 
was beheaded under the governor Barbarus, during 
the persecution of Diocletian.&mdash;At Apamea, in Phry- 
gia, St. Maximus, martyr, under the same Diocle- 
tian.&mdash;At Leon, in Spain, the holy martyrs Claudius, 
Lupercus, and Victorius, sons of the centurion St. 
Marcellus, who were condemned to decapitation, in 
the persecution of Diocletian and Maximian, under 
the governor Diogenian.&mdash;At 2Egea, in Cilicia, the 
martyrdom of the Saints Zenobius, bishop, and Zeno- 
bia, his sister, under the emperor Diocletian and the 
governor Lysias.&mdash;At Altino, St. Theonestus, bishop 
and martyr, who was killed by the Arians.&mdash;At 
Paris, St. Lucanus, martyr.&mdash;At Antioch, St. Sera- 
pion, a bishop very celebrated for his learning.&mdash;At 
Capua, St. Germanus, bishop and confessor, a man 
of great sanctity, whose soul, at the hour of death, 
was seen by St. Benedict taken to heaven by angels. 
At Potenza, in Basilicata, St. Gerard, bishop. 
At Palma, in the island of Majorca, St. Alphonsus 
Rodriguez, a lay brother of the Society of Jesus, 
whom Leo XII. beatified and Leo XIII. canonized 
on account of his remarkable humility and constant 
love of mortification. 



OCTOBER. 335 



Cfte Cf)frtp*ffr0t Dap offlDcto&er, 

mHE vigil of All Saints.&mdash;At Rome, the birthday 
of blessed Nemesius, deacon, and his daughter, 
the virgin Lucilla. As they could not be prevailed 
upon to abandon the faith of Christ, they were be- 
headed on the 25th of August by order of the em- 
peror Valerian. Their bodies were buried by the 
blessed pope Stephen, and afterwards more decently 
entombed on this day, on the Appian road, by 
blessed Xystus. Gregory V. translated them into 
the sacristy of Santa Maria Nova, together with the 
Saints Symphronius, Olympius, tribune, Exuperia, 
his wife, and Theodulus, his son, who, being all con- 
verted by the exertions of Symphronius, and bap- 
tized by the same St. Stephen, had been crowned 
with martyrdom. These holy bodies were found 
there during the Pontificate of Gregory XIII., and 
placed more honorably beneath the altar of the same 
church, on the 8th of December. The same day, the 
Saints Ampliatus, Urbanus and Narcissus, who are 
mentioned by St. Paul in his epistle to the Romans. 
They were put to death by the Jews and Gentiles for 
the Gospel of Christ.&mdash;At Saint-Quentin, in France, 
St. Quinctinus, Roman citizen and senator, who en- 
dured martyrdom under the emperor Maximian. By 
the revelation of an angel, his body was found incor- 
rupt after the lapse of fifty-five years.&mdash;At Constanti- 
nople, St. Stachis, bishop, who was consecrated first 



336 OCTOBER. 

bishop of that city by the blessed apostle Andrew. 
At Milan, St. Antoninus, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At 
Ratisbon, St. Wolfgang, bishop. 



NOVEMBER. 




Cfie JFir0t Dap of 



HE Festival of All Saints, which pope 
Boniface IV., after the dedication of the 
Pantheon, ordained to be kept generally 
and solemnly every year, in the city of 
Rome, in honor of the blessed Virgin Mary, Mother 
of God, and of the holy martyrs. It was afterwards 
decreed by Gregory IV. that this feast, which was 
then celebrated in many dioceses, but at different 
times, should be on this day perpetually and 
solemnly kept by the whole Church in honor of all 
the Saints.&mdash;At Terracina, in Campania, the birth- 
day of St. Caesarius, deacon, who was for many 
days detained in prison, afterwards put into a sack 
with St. Julian, priest, and then precipitated into 
the sea.&mdash;At Dijon, St. Benignus, a priest, who 
was sent to France by blessed Polycarp to preach 
the Gospel. After he had been subjected to many 
most grievous torments, by the judge Terentius, 
under the emperor Marcus Aurelius, he was finally 
condemned to have his neck struck with an iron 
bar and his body pierced with a lance. The same 
day, St. Mary, handmaid. Accused of professing 
22 



338 NOVEMBER. 

the Christian religion, in the time of the emperor 
Adrian, she was subjected to cruel scourging, to 
torture on the rack, and the lacerating of her body 
with iron hooks, and thus completed her martyr- 
dom.&mdash;At Damascus, the martyrdom of the Saints 
Csesarius, Dacius and five others.&mdash;In Persia, under 
king Sapor, the holy martyrs John, bishop, and 
James, priest.&mdash;At Tarsus, the Saints Cyrenia and 
Juliana, under the emperor Maximian.&mdash;At Cler- 
mont, in Auvergne, St. Austremonius, first bishop 
of that city.&mdash;At Paris, the decease of St. Marcel- 
lus, bishop.&mdash;At Bayeux, St. Vigor, bishop, in the 
time of Childebert, king of the Franks.&mdash;At Tivoli, 
St. Severin, monk.&mdash;In Gatinais, St. Maturin, con- 
fessor. 



Cfte Second Dap of Ji3otoem6ec, 

fPHE Commemoration of all the faithful departed. 
- The same day, the birthday of St. Victorinus, 
bishop of Poitiers, who, after writing many works, 
as is attested by St. Jerome, was crowned with mar- 
tyrdom in the persecution of Diocletian.&mdash;At Trieste, 
blessed Justus, who consummated his martyrdom in 
the same persecution, under the governor Manatius. 
At Sebaste, the Saints Carterius, Styriacus, To- 
bias, Eudoxius, Agapius, and their companions, 
martyrs, under the emperor Licinius.&mdash;In Persia, the 
holy martyrs Acindynus, Pegasius, Aphtonius, El- 



NOVEMBER. 339 

pidephorus and Anempodistus, with their numerous 
companions.&mdash;In Africa, the birthday of the holy 
martyrs Publius, Victor, Hermes, and Papias.&mdash;At 
Tarsus, in Cilicia, in the reign of Julian the Apos- 
tate, St. Eustochium, virgin and martyr, who 
breathed her last in prayer in the midst of severe 
torments.&mdash;At Laodicea, in Syria, St. Theodotus, a 
bishop, powerful in words, and adorned with good 
works and virtues.&mdash;At Vienne, St. George, bishop. 
In the monastery of St. Maurice, in Switzerland, 
St. Ambrose, abbot.&mdash;At Cyrus, in Syria, St. Mar- 
cian, confessor. 



C&e CfttrD Dap of jQotoem&er, 

rTHE birthday of St. Quartus, disciple of the 
L apostles.&mdash;At Csesarea, in Cappadocia, the holy 
martyrs Germanus, Theophilus, Csesarius and Vi- 
talis, who became illustrious martyrs in the perse- 
cution of Decius.&mdash;At Saragossa, under Dacian, 
governor of Spain, innumerable holy martyrs, who 
laid down their lives for Christ with admirable 
fervor.&mdash;At Viterbo, during the persecution of 
Maximian, the holy martyrs Valentine, priest, and 
Hilary, deacon. For attachment to the faith of 
Christ, they were cast into the Tiber with a stone 
tied to them, but being miraculously rescued by 
an angel, they were beheaded, and thus were 
crowned with the glory of martyrdom.&mdash;In Eng- 



340 NOVEMBER. 

land, St. Winefride, virgin and martyr.&mdash;In the 
monastery of Clairvaux, the decease of St. Malachy, 
bishop of Armagh, in Ireland, who won renown in 
his own days for his many virtues, and whose life 
was written by the abbot St. Bernard. The same 
day, St. Hubert, bishop of Tongres.&mdash;At Vienne, St. 
Domnus, bishop and confessor.&mdash;Also, the departure 
from this life of St. Pirminus, bishop of Meaux. 
At Urgel, in Spain, St. Hermengaudus, bishop.&mdash;At 
Borne, St. Sylvia, mother of pope St. Gregory. 



C&e Jfourti) Dap of Ji3otiem&er, 

AT Milan, St. Charles Borromeo, cardinal, and 
** bishop of that city, who was ranked among the 
Saints by Paul V. on account of the holiness of 
his life and his renown for miracles.&mdash;At Bologna, 
the holy martyrs Vitalis and Agricola. The former 
was first the servant of the latter, and afterwards 
his partner and colleague in martyrdom. He was 
subjected by the persecutors to all kinds of tor- 
ments, so that there was no part of his body with- 
out wounds. After having suffered with constancy, 
he yielded up his soul to God in prayer. Agricola 
was put to death by being fastened to a cross with 
many nails. St. Ambrose relates that being present 
at their translation, he took the martyr's nails, his 
glorious blood, and the wood of his cross, and de- 



NOVEMBER. 341 

posited them under the consecrated altars. The 
same day, the birthday of the Saints Philologus and 
Patrobas, disciples of the apostle St. Paul.&mdash;At 
Autun, St. Proculus, martyr.&mdash;In Vexin (in the 
North of France), St. Clarus, priest and martyr. 
At Ephesus, St. Porphyry, martyr, under the em- 
peror Aurelian.&mdash;At Myra, in Lycia, the holy mar- 
tyrs Nicander, bishop, and Hermas, priest, under 
the governor Libanius. The same day, the birthday 
of St. Pierius, priest of Alexandria, who, being 
deeply versed in the sacred Scriptures, leading a 
very pure life, and freed from all impediments in 
order to apply to Christian philosophy, taught the 
people with great renown, and published various 
treatises, under the emperors Carus and Diocletian, 
when Theonas governed the church of Alexandria. 
After the persecution, he spent the remainder of his 
life at Borne, where he rested in peace.&mdash;At Bhodez, 
in France, blessed Amantius, bishop, whose life was 
resplendent with sanctity and miracles.&mdash;In Bithy- 
nia, St. Joannicius, abbot.&mdash;In Hungary, at Alba- 
Begale, the demise of St. Emeric, confessor, son of 
St. Stephen, king of Hungary.&mdash;In the monastery 
of Cerfroid, in the diocese of Meaux, St. Felix de 
Valois, founder of the Order of the Most Holy 
Trinity for the Bedemption of Captives. His feast 
is celebrated on the 20th of this month by order of 
Innocent XI.&mdash;At Treves, St. Modesta, virgin. 



342 NOVEMBER. 



C&e Jfiftft Dap of J!2otoem&er, 

CT. ZA CHARY, priest and prophet, father of 
^ blessed John the Baptist.&mdash;Also, St. Elizabeth, 
mother of the same most holy precursor.&mdash;At Ter- 
racina, in Campania, the birthday of the holy mar- 
tyrs, Felix, priest, and Eusebius, monk. The latter 
having buried the holy martyrs Julian and Csesarius, 
and converted to the faith of Christ, many whom the 
priest St. Felix baptized, was arrested with him, 
and both being led to the tribunal of the judge, who 
could not succeed in intimidating them, they were 
shut up in prison, and as they refused to offer sacri- 
fice, were beheaded that same night.&mdash;At Emesa, in 
Phoenicia, during the persecution of Decius, the holy 
martyrs Galation, and Epistemis, his wife, who were 
scourged, had their hands, feet and tongue severed 
from their bodies, and finally consummated their 
martyrdom by decapitation.&mdash;Also, the holy mar- 
tyrs Domninus, Theotimus, Philotheus, Silvanus, 
and their companions, under the emperor Maxi- 
minus.&mdash;At Milan, St. Magnus, bishop and confes- 
sor.&mdash;At Brescia, St. Dominator, bishop.&mdash;At Treves, 
St. Fibitius, who was made bishop of that city while 
filling the office of abbot.&mdash;At Orleans, in France, 
St. Lsetus, priest and confessor. 



NOVEMBER. 343 



Cfte >tetf) Dap of 

AT Tunis, in Africa, the birthday of St. Felix, 
^ martyr, who, having confessed Christ, was sent 
to prison, his execution being deferred. But the 
next day he was found dead, as is related by St. 
Augustine, in his exposition of a psalm to the people 
on the feast of the saint.&mdash;At Theopolis, ten holy 
martyrs, who are reported to have been put to death 
by the Saracens.&mdash;At Barcelona, St. Severus, bishop 
and martyr, who had his head pierced with a nail, 
and thus received the crown of martyrdom for the 
faith.&mdash;In Phrygia, St.&mdash;Atticus.&mdash;At Berg, the de- 
parture from this life of St. Winoc, abbot, who was- 
renowned for virtues and miracles, and for a long 
time served his brethren, even those who were sub- 
ject to him.&mdash;At Fundi, in Campania, St. Felix, 
monk.&mdash;At Limoges, in Aquitaine, St. Leonard, con- 
fessor, disciple of the blessed bishop Remigius, who 
was born of a noble family, and chose to lead a 
solitary life. He was celebrated for holiness and 
miracles, but his miraculous gift shone particularly 
in the deliverance of captives. 



Cfte Sefcemft Dap of i;2ofcem&er, 

AT Padua, the demise of St. Prosdocimus, first 
" bishop of that city, who was ordained bishop 
by the blessed apostle Peter, and sent thither to 



344 NOVEMBER. 

preach the word of God, where, celebrated for many 
virtues and prodigies, he happily ended his life. 
At Perugia, St. Herculanus, bishop and martyr. 
The same day, St. Amaranthus, martyr, who was 
buried in the city of Albi, after the termination of 
combats faithfully sustained, but lives in eternal 
glory.&mdash;At Melitine, in Armenia, the martyrdom of 
the Saints Hieron, Meander, Hesychius, and thirty 
others, who were crowned in the persecution of Dio- 
cletian, under the governor Lysias.&mdash;At Amphipolis, 
in Macedonia, the holy martyrs Auctus, Taurio and 
Thessalonica.&mdash;At Ancyra, the passion of the Saints 
Melasippus, Anthony and Carina, under Julian the 
Apostate.&mdash;At Cologne, St. Engelbertus, bishop, who 
did not hesitate to suffer martyrdom in defence of 
ecclesiastical liberties, and for obedience to the Ro- 
man Church.&mdash;At Alexandria, blessed Achillas, a 
bishop renowned for erudition, faith and purity of 
life.&mdash;In Friesland, the decease of St. Willibrord, 
bishop of Utrecht, who was consecrated bishop by the 
blessed pope Sergius, and preached the Gospel in 
Friesland and Denmark.&mdash;At Metz, St. Eufus, bish- 
op and confessor.&mdash;At Strasburg, St. Florentius, 
bishop. 

- * - 

Cfie OBisfitft Dap of Jl3otoem6er 



fTIHE Octave of All Saints.&mdash;At Eome, on the Lavi- 
* can road, three miles from the city, the martyr- 
dom of the Saints Claudius, Niostratus, Symphor- 



NOVEMBER. 345 

ian, Castorius and Simplicius, who were first sent 
to prison, then scourged with whips set with metal, 
and as they could not be made to forsake the faith 
of Christ, Diocletian ordered them to be thrown into 
the river.&mdash;Also, on the Lavican way, the birthday 
of the saintly brothers, Severus, Severian, Carpo- 
phorus and Victorinus, called the Four Crowned, 
who were scourged to death with leaded whips, dur- 
ing the reign of the same emperor. As their names, 
known some years afterwards by revelation, could 
not then be ascertained, it was ordered that their 
anniversary should be commemorated with the pre- 
ceding five, under the name of the Four Saints 
Crowned. This appellation was retained by the 
Church, even after their names had been revealed. 
At Home, St. Deusdedit, pope, whose merit was so 
great that he cured a leper by kissing him.&mdash;At 
Bremen, St. Willehad, first bishop of that city, who, 
in conjunction with St. Boniface, whose disciple he 
was, spread the Gospel in Friesland and Saxony. 
At Soissons, in France, St. Godfrey, bishop of 
Amiens, a man of great holiness.&mdash;At Verdun, St. 
Maurus, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Tours, St. Clarus, 
priest, whose epitaph was written by St. Paulinus. 



C&e iSfntft Dap of H3otiem&er, 

AT Home, the dedication of the Basilica of our 

Saviour.&mdash;At Amasea, in Pontus, the birthday 

of St. Theodore, a soldier, in the time of the em- 



346 NOVEMBER. 

peror Maximian. For the confession of Christ, he 
was severely scourged and sent to prison, where 
he was comforted by an apparition of our Lord, 
who exhorted him to act with courage and constancy. 
He was finally stretched on the rack, lacerated with 
iron hooks till his intestines were laid bare, and 
then cast into the flames to be burned alive. His 
glorious deeds have been celebrated in a magnificent 
oration by St. Gregory of Nyssa.&mdash;At Tyana, in 
Cappadocia, the martyrdom of St. Orestes, under the 
emperor Diocletian.&mdash;At Thessalonica, St. Alexan- 
der, martyr, during the reign of Maximian.&mdash;At 
Bourges, St. Ursinus, confessor, who was ordained 
at Rome by the successors of the apostles and ap- 
pointed first bishop of that city.&mdash;At Naples, in 
Campania, St. Agrippinus, a bishop renowned for 
miracles.&mdash;At Constantinople, the holy virgins 
Eustolia, a native of Rome, and Sopatra, daughter 
of the emperor Maurice.&mdash;At Berytus, in Syria, the 
Commemoration of the Image of our Saviour, which 
being fastened to a cross by the Jews, poured out 
blood so copiously that the Eastern and Western 
Churches received abundantly of it. 



Cfte Centft Dap of 

A T Naples, in Campania, the birthday of St. An- 
" drew Avellini, Clerk Regular, very celebrated for 
his sanctity, and his zeal in procuring the salvation 



NOVEMBER. 347 

of souls. Being renowned for miracles, he was in- 
scribed on the catalogue of saints by Clement XI. 
The birthday of the holy martyrs Tryphon and Re- 
spicius, and the virgin Nympha.&mdash;In the diocese of 
Agde, the holy martyrs Tiberius, Modestus, and 
Florentia, who, after being subjected to various tor- 
ments, consummated their martyrdom in the time of 
Diocletian.&mdash;At Antioch, the Saints Demetrius, 
bishop, Anian, deacon, Eustosius, and twenty other 
martyrs.&mdash;At Ravenna, St. Probus, a bishop, re- 
nowned for miracles.&mdash;At Orleans, St. Monitor, 
bishop and confessor.&mdash;In England, St. Justus, 
bishop, who was sent by pope Gregory with Augus- 
tine, Mellitus, and others to preach the Gospel in 
that country. There he went to his repose in the 
Lord, celebrated for sanctity.&mdash;At Melun, St. Leo, 
confessor.&mdash;At Iconium, in Lycaonia, the holy women 
Tryphenna and Tryphosa, who profited by the preach- 
ing of blessed Paul and the example of Thecla to 
make great progress in Christian perfection.&mdash;In the 
island of Paros, St. Theoctistes, virgin. 



Cfte <&lt\*tntb Dap of H3otoem6cr* 

AT Tours, in France, the birthday of blessed Mar- 
^ tin, bishop and confessor, whose life was so re- 
nowned for miracles that he received the power to 
raise three persons from the dead.&mdash;At Cotya3um, in 



348 NOVEMBER. 

Phrygia, during the persecution of Diocletian, the 
celebrated martyrdom of St. Mennas, Egyptian sol- 
dier, who cast off the military belt and obtained the 
grace of serving the King of heaven secretly in the 
desert. Afterwards coming out publicly, and freely 
declaring himself a Christian, he was first subjected 
to dire torments ; and finally kneeling in prayer, and 
giving thanks to our Lord Jesus Christ, he was 
struck with the sword. After his death, he was re- 
nowned for many miracles.&mdash;At Ravenna, the holy 
martyrs Valentine, Felician and Victorinus, who 
were crowned in the persecution of Diocletian.&mdash;In 
Mesopotamia, St.&mdash;Athenodorus, martyr, who was sub- 
jected to fire and other torments under the same 
Diocletian and the governor Eleusius. He was at 
length sentenced to capital punishment, but the exe- 
cutioner having fallen down and no other person 
daring to strike him with the sword, he passed to 
his repose in the Lord whilst praying.&mdash;At Lyons, 
St. Veranus, bishop, whose life was illustrated by his 
faith and other virtues.&mdash;In the monastery of 
Crypta-Ferrata, near Frascati, the holy abbot, 
Bartholomew, companion of blessed Nilus, whose life 
he wrote.&mdash;In the province of Abruzzo, blessed 
Mennas, solitary, whose virtues and miracles are 
mentioned by pope St. Gregory. 



NOVEMBER. 349 



Cfte Ctoelftf) Dap of J3otiem&er, 

rPHE birthday of St. Martin, pope and martyr. 
Because he had convoked a council at Rome, and 
condemned the heretics Sergius, Paul and Pyrrhus, 
he was taken prisoner treacherously by order of the 
heretical emperor Constans, carried to Constanti- 
nople and banished to Chersonesus, where he ended 
his life, consumed with afflictions endured for the 
Catholic faith, and with a reputation for many 
miracles. His body was subsequently transferred to 
Rome, and deposited in the church of the Saints 
Silvester and Martin. -In Asia, the martyrdom of 
the Saints Aurelius and Publius, bishops.&mdash;In the 
diocese of Sens, St. Paternus, martyr.&mdash;At Ghent, St. 
Livinus, bishop and martyr.&mdash;In Poland, the holy 
martyrs Benedict, John, Matthew, Isaac and Chris- 
tinus, hermits.&mdash;At Witebsk, in Poland, the martyr- 
dom of St. Josaphat, of the Order of St. Basil, arch- 
bishop of Polotzk, who was cruelly murdered by the 
schismatics, through hatred of Catholic unity and 
truth. He was cononized by Pius IX. in 1867.&mdash;At 
Avignon, St. Rufus, first bishop of that city.&mdash;At 
Cologne, the decease of St. Cunibert, bishop.&mdash;At 
Tarazona, in Spain, blessed ^Emilian, a priest who 
wrought numberless miracles, and whose wonderful 
life was written by St. Braulio, bishop of Sara- 
gossa.&mdash;At Constantinople, St. Nilus, abbot who re- 
signed the office of governor of the city to become a 



350 NOVEMBER. 

monk, and was distinguished for learning and sanc- 
tity, in the time of Theodosius the Younger.&mdash;Also, 
at Constantinople, St. Theodore Studita, who be- 
came celebrated throughout the whole Catholic 
Church by his vigorous defence of the faith against 
the Iconoclasts.&mdash;At Alcala, in Spain, St. Didacus, 
confessor, of the Order of Minorites, who was re- 
nowned for his humility.&mdash;Inscribed on the cata- 
logue of the saints by Sixtus V., his feast is kept on 
the thirteenth of this month. 



Cfte Cfiitteentj) Dap of 

. DIDACUS, confessor, of the Order of Minor- 
ites, whose birthday occurred on the twelfth 
of this month.&mdash;At Eavenna, the birthday of the 
holy martyrs Valentine, Solutor and Victor, who 
suffered under the emperor Diocletian.&mdash;At Aix, in 
Province, St. Matrius, a most renowned martyr. 
At Ca3sarea, in Palestine, the martyrdom of the 
Saints Antoninus, Zebina, Germanus and Ennatha, 
virgin. Ennatha was scourged under Galerius 
Maximian, and burned alive, while the others, for 
boldly reproaching the governor Firmilian for his 
idolatry in sacrificing to the gods, were beheaded. 
In Africa, the holy martyrs Arcadius, Paschasius, 
Probus and Eutychian, Spaniards, who refused abso- 
lutely to vield to the Arian perfidy, during the perse- 



NOVEMBER. 351 

cution of the Vandals. Accordingly they were pro- 
scribed by the Arian king Genseric, driven into exile, 
and finally, after being subjected to fearful tortures, 
were put to death in various manners. Then was 
also made manifest the constancy of the small boy 
Paulillns, brother of the Saints Paschasius and 
Eutychian. As he could not be seduced from the 
Catholic faith, he was a long time beaten with rods, 
and condemned to a base servitude.&mdash;At Rome, pope 
St. Nicholas, distinguished for the apostolic spirit. 
At Tours, St. Brice, bishop, disciple of the blessed 
bishop Martin.&mdash;At Toledo, St. Eugenius, bishop. 
At Clermont, in Auvergne, St. Quinctian, bishop. 
At Cremona, St. Homobonus, confessor, renowned 
for miraqles. He was ranked among the saints by 
Innocent III. 



Cfte jFotmeemf) Dap of Jl3otoem&et, 

fin HE festival of St. Josaphat, bishop and martyr, 
-&mdash;At Heraclea, in Thrace, the birthday of the holy 
martyrs Clementinus, Theodotus and Philomenus. 
At Alexandria, St. Serapion, martyr, whom the per- 
secutors, under the emperor Decius, subjected to 
torments so cruel that all his limbs were disjointed. 
He became a martyr of Christ by being hurled down 
from the upper part of his house.&mdash;At Troyes, in 
France, St. Venerandus, martyr, under the emperor 
Aurelian.&mdash;Also, in France, the holy virgin Veneran- 



352 NOVEMBER. 

da, who received the crown of martyrdom under the 
emperor Antoninus and the governor Asclepiades. 
At Gangres, in Paphlagonia, St. Hypatius, bishop ? 
who on his way home from the great council of Nice, 
was attacked with stones by the Novatian heretics, 
and died a martyr.&mdash;At Algiers, in Africa, blessed 
Serapion, of the Order of Our Blessed Lady of Ran- 
som. For the redemption of the faithful in captivity 
and the preaching of the Christian faith, he was the 
first of his Order to deserve the palm of martyrdom 
by being crucified and cut to pieces.&mdash;At Emesa, the 
passion of many holy women, who were barbarously 
tortured and massacred under Mady, a savage Ara- 
bian chief.&mdash;At Bologna, St. Jucundus, bishop and 
confessor.&mdash;In Ireland, St. Lawrence, bishop of 
Dublin. 



C6e Jfifteemf) Dap of j[2ofcem&er, 

T. GERTRUDE, virgin, whose birthday is the 17th 
of this month. The same day, the birthday of 
St. Eugenius, bishop of Toledo, and martyr, disciple 
of blessed Denis the Areopagite. Having consum- 
mated his martyrdom near Paris, he received from 
our Lord a crown for his blessed sufferings. His 
body was afterwards conveyed to Toledo.&mdash;At Nola, 
in Campania, blessed Felix, bishop and martyr, who 
was renowned for miracles from the fifteenth year of 
his age. He terminated the combats of his martyr- 



NOVEMBER. 353 

dom with thirty others, under the governor Marcian. 
At Edessa, in Syria, the holy martyrs Gurias and 
Samonas, under the emperor Diocletian and the 
governor Antoninus.&mdash;In the same place, the martyr- 
dom of St. Abibus, deacon, who was torn with iron 
hooks, and cast into the fire in the time of the em- 
peror Licinius and the governor Lysanias.&mdash;In 
Africa, the holy martyrs Secundus, Fidentian, and 
Varicus.&mdash;In Bretagne, the birthday of St. Malo, 
bishop, who was glorious for miracles from his early 
years.&mdash;At Verona, St. Luperius, bishop and con- 
fessor.&mdash;In Austria, St. Leopold, margrave of that 
country, who was inscribed among the saints by&mdash;In- 
nocent VIII. 



C6e Steteent!) Dap of 

TN Africa, the holy martyrs Rufinus, Mark, Valer- 
ius and their companions. The same day, the 
holy martyrs Elpidius, Marcellus, Eustochius, and 
their companions. Elpidius being a senator, and 
having perseveringly confessed the Christian faith 
before Julian the Apostate, was, with his com- 
panions, first tied to wild horses and dragged by 
them, and then being thrown into the fire, ended a 
glorious martyrdom.&mdash;At Lyons, the birthday of St. 
Eucherius, bishop and confessor, a man of extraordi- 
nary faith and learning. He renounced the senator- 
ial dignity to embrace the religious life, and for a 

23 



354 NOVEMBER. 

long time voluntarily shut himself up in a cavern, 
where he served Christ in prayer and fasting. After- 
wards, through the revelation of an angel, he was 
solemnly installed in the episcopal chair of the city 
of Lyons.&mdash;At Padua, St. Fidentius, bishop.&mdash;At 
Canterbury, in England, St. Edmund, archbishop 
and confessor, who was sent into exile for having 
maintained the rights of his church. He died near 
Provins, in France, and was canonized by&mdash;Innocent 
IV. The same day, the departure from this world 
of St. Othmar, abbot. 



Cfte >etoenteentf) Dap of 

A T NeocaBsarea, in Pontus, the birthday of St. 
" Gregory, bishop, illustrious by his learning and 
sanctity. The prodigies and miracles which he 
wrought to the great glory of the Church gained for 
him the surname of Wonder-worker.&mdash;In Palestine, 
the holy martyrs Alpha?us and Zacchaeus, who in the 
first year of the persecution of Diocletian, after 
many torments underwent capital punishment.&mdash;At 
Cordova, during the same persecution, the holy mar- 
tyrs Acisclus, and Victoria, his sister, who were 
most cruelly tortured by order of the governor Dion, 
and thus merited to be crowned by our Lord for 
their glorious sufferings.&mdash;At Alexandria, St. Denis, 
bishop, a man of the most profound learning. Re- 



NOVEMBER. 355 

nowned for having often confessed the faith, and il- 
lustrious by the various sufferings and torments he 
had endured, full of days he rested in peace a con- 
fessor, in the time of the emperors Valerian and 
Gallienus.&mdash;At Orleans, St. Anian, bishop, whose 
precious death in the sight of the Lord is attested by 
frequent miracles.&mdash;In England, St. Hugh, bishop, 
who was called from a Carthusian monastery to the 
government of the church of Lincoln. He ended his 
holy life in peace, renowned for many miracles.&mdash;At 
Tours, St. Gregory, bishop.&mdash;At Florence, St. Eu- 
genius, confessor, deacon of blessed Zenobius, bishop 
of that city.&mdash;In Germany, St. Gertrude, virgin, of 
the Order of St. Benedict, who was renowned for the 
revelations she received. Her festival is celebrated 
on the 15th of this month. 



Cfte (Eigftteentf) Dap of Ji2ofcem&er, 

AT Rome, the Dedication of the basilicas of the 
" holy apostles Peter and Paul. The former, hav- 
ing been enlarged, was on this day solemnly conse- 
crated by Urban VIII.; while the latter, more 
sumptuously rebuilt after its total destruction by 
the flames, was solemnly dedicated on the 10th of 
December by Pius IX., though the festival in com- 
memoration of that event was transferred to this 



356 NOVEMBER. 

day.&mdash;At Antioch, the birthday of St. Romanus, 
martyr, in the time of the emperor Galerius. When 
the prefect Asclepiades broke into the churches and 
strove to destroy them completely, Romanus ex- 
horted the Christians to resist him, and after being 
subjected to dire torments and the cutting out of 
his tongue (without which, however, he spoke the 
praises of God), he was strangled in prison and 
crowned with a glorious martyrdom. Before him 
suffered a young boy named Barula, who being asked 
by him whether it was better to worship one God or 
several gods, and having answered that we must be- 
lieve in the one God whom the Christians adore, was 
scourged and beheaded.&mdash;Also, at Antioch, the holy 
martyr Hesychius, a soldier. Hearing the order 
that anyone refusing to sacrifice to idols, should lay 
aside his military belt, he immediately took off 
his. For this reason, he was precipitated into the 
river with a large stone tied to his right hand. The 
same day, the Saints Oriculus and his companions, 
who suffered for the Catholic faith, in the persecu- 
tion of the Vandals.&mdash;At Mayence, St. Maximus, 
bishop, who, after suffering much from the Arians, 
died a confessor, in the time of Constantius.&mdash;At 
Tours, the departure from this life of blessed Odo, 
abbot of Cluny.&mdash;At Antioch, St. Thomas, a monk 
honored with an annual solemnity by the people of 
Antioch, for having obtained the cessation of a 
pestilence by his prayers.&mdash;At Lucca, in Tuscany, the 
translation of St. Frigdian, bishop and confessor. 



NOVEMBER. 357 



Cfte jQtneteemi) Dap of Ji2otom&er, 

A T Marburg, in Germany, the demise of St. Eliza- 
*** beth, widow, daughter of Andrew, king of Hun- 
gary, of the Third Order of St. Francis. After a 
life passed in the performance of pious works, she 
went to heaven, having a reputation for miracles. 
Tie same day, the birthday of St. Pontian, pope and 
martyr, who, with the priest Hippolytus, was trans- 
ported to Sardinia,, by the emperor Alexander, and 
there, being scourged to death with rods, consum- 
mated his martyrdom. His body was conveyed to 
Home by the blessed pope Fabian, and buried in the 
cemetery of Callistus.&mdash;At Samaria, the holy prophet 
Abdias.&mdash;At Rome, on the Appian road, the birth- 
day of St. Maximus, priest and martyr, who suf- 
fered in the persecution of Valerian, and was buried 
near St. Xystus.&mdash;At Caesarea, in Cappadocia, St. 
Barlaam, martyr, who, though unpolished and igno- 
rant, yet armed with the wisdom of Christ, overcame 
the tyrant, and, by the constancy of his faith, sub- 
dued fire itself. On his birthday, St. Basil the 
Great delivered a celebrated discourse.&mdash;At Ecijo, 
the blessed bishop Oispinus, who obtained the 
glory of martyrdom by decapitation.&mdash;At Vienne, 
the holy martyrs Severinus, Exuperius and Felician. 
Their bodies, after the lapse of many years, were 
found through their own revelation, and being taken 
up with due honors by the bishop, clergy and people 



358 NOVEMBER. 

of that city, were buried with becoming solemnity. 
The same day, St. Faustus, deacon of Alexandria, 
who was. first banished with St. Denis, in the perse- 
cution of Valerian; later, in the persecution of 
Diocletian, being far advanced in age, he consum- 
mated his martyrdom by the sword.&mdash;In Isauria, the 
martyrdom of Saint Azas and his military com- 
panions, to the number of one hundred and fifty, 
under the emperor Diocletian and the tribune 
Aquilinus. 



Cfie Ctoemietf) Dag of j!3otiem&er, 

CT. FELIX DE VALOIS, confessor.&mdash;At Messina, 
^ in Sicily, the holy martyrs Ampelus and Caius. 
At Turin, the holy martyrs Octavius, Solutor and 
Adventor, soldiers of the Theban Legion, who fought 
valiantly for the faith under the emperor Maximian, 
and were crowned with martyrdom.&mdash;At Caesarea, in 
Palestine, in the time of the emperor Galerius Maxi- 
mian, the holy martyr Agapius, who was condemned 
to be devoured by the beasts; but being unhurt by 
them, he was cast into the sea with stones tied to 
his feet.&mdash;In Persia, the martyrdom of the holy bish- 
op Nersas and his companions.&mdash;At Dorostorum, in 
Mysia, St. Dasius, bishop, who, for refusing to con- 
sent to the impurities practised on the feast of Sa- 
turn, was put to death, under the governor Bassus. 
At Nicaea, in Bithynia, the holy martyrs Eustachius, 



NOVEMBER. 359 

Thespesius and Anatolius, in the persecution of 
Maximinus.&mdash;At Heraclea, in Thrace, the holy mar- 
tyrs Bassus, Denis, Agapitus and forty others.&mdash;In 
England, St. Edmund, king and martyr.&mdash;At Con- 
stantinople, St. Gregory of Decapolis, who suffered 
many tribulations for the worship of holy images. 
At Milan, St. Benignus, a bishop, who, amidst the 
serious troubles caused by the barbarians, governed 
the church entrusted to him with the greatest con- 
stancy and piety.&mdash;At Chalons, St. Silvester, a bish- 
op, who went to God in the forty-second year of 
his priesthood, full of days and virtues.&mdash;At Verona, 
St. Simplicius, bishop and confessor. 



Cfte Ctoentp*fir0t Dap of H3otiem6er, 

TN the temple at Jerusalem, the Presentation of 
the Blessed Virgin Mary, Mother of God. 
The same day, the birthday of blessed Rufus, men- 
tioned by the apostle St. Paul in his epistle to the 
Romans.&mdash;At Rome, the martyrdom of the Saints 
Celsus and Clement.&mdash;At Ostia, the holy martyrs 
Demetrius and Honorius.&mdash;At Rheims, St. Albert, 
bishop of Liege and martyr, who was put to death for 
defending the liberties of the Church.&mdash;In Spain, the 
holy martyrs Honorius, Eutychius and Stephen. 
In Pamphylia, St. Heliodorus, martyr, in the perse- 
cution of Aurelian, under the governor Aetius. 



360 NOVEMBER. 

After his death his executioners were converted to 
the faith and thrown into the sea.&mdash;At Rome, St. 
Gelasius, pope, distinguished for learning and 
sanctity.&mdash;At Verona, St. Maurus, bishop and con- 
fessor.&mdash;In the monastery of Bobio, the departure 
from this life of St. Columban, abbot, who founded 
many convents and governed a large number of 
monks. He died at an advanced age, celebrated for 
many virtues. 



C&e Ctoemp*0econfl Dap of U3otiem&er, 

AT Borne, St. Cecilia, virgin and martyr, who 
"" brought to the faith of Christ her spouse Valer- 
ian and his brother Tiburtius, and encouraged them 
to martyrdom. After their death, being arrested by 
order of Almachius, prefect of the city, and exposed 
to the fire, from which she came out uninjured, she 
terminated her glorious sufferings by the sword, in 
the time of the emperor Marcus Aurelius Sevens s 
Alexander.&mdash;At ColossaB, in Phrygia, during the 
reign of Nero, Saints Philemon and Apphias, dis- 
ciples of St. Paul. When the Gentiles rushed into 
the church on the feast of Diana, they were arrested 
whilst the other Christians fled, and by the command 
of the governor Artocles, were scourged, let down 
into a pit up to their waist, and overwhelmed with 
stones.&mdash;Also, at Rome, St. Maurus, martyr, who, 
coming from Africa to visit the tombs of the Apostles, 



NOVEMBER. 361 

was condemned to die, under the emperor Numerian, 
Celerinus being prefect of the city.&mdash;At Antioch, in 
Pisidia, the martyrdom of the Saints Mark and 
Stephen, under the emperor Diocletian.&mdash;At Autun, 
St. Pragmatius, bishop and confessor. 



Cfte Ctoemp*t|)irD Dap of 

rilHE birthday of pope St. Clement, wno held the 
sovereign Pontificate the third after the blessed 
apostle Peter.&mdash;In the persecution of Trajan, he was 
banished to Chersonesus, where, being precipitated 
into the sea with an anchor tied to his neck, he was 
crowned with martyrdom. His body was taken to 
Rome during the pontificate of Nicholas I., and 
placed with due honors in the church which had been 
previously built under his invocation.&mdash;At Rome, St. 
Felicitas, mother of seven sons, martyrs. After 
them she was beheaded for Christ, by order of the 
emperor Marcus Antoninus.&mdash;At Merida, in Spain, 
St. Lucretia, virgin and martyr, who consummated 
her martyrdom in the persecution of Diocletian, un- 
der the governor Dacian.&mdash;At Cyzicum, in Helles- 
pont, St. Sisinius, martyr, who, after many tor- 
ments, was put to the sword, in the same persecu- 
tion.&mdash;At Iconium, in Lycaonia, the holy bishop 
Amphilochius, who was the companion of St. Basil 
and St. Gregory Nazianzen in the desert, and their 
colleague in the episcopate. After many combats 



362 NOVEMBER. 

for the Catholic faith, he rested in peace, with the 
reputation of a holy and learned prelate.&mdash;At Gir- 
genti, the decease of St. Gregory, bishop.&mdash;In the 
village of Hasbein, St. Tron, priest and confessor. 
At Mantua, blessed John the Good, of the Order of 
Augustinians, whose celebrated life was written by 
St. Antoninus. 



Cfte CtoemHourtf) Dap of 

GT. JOHN OF THE CROSS, confessor, whose birth- 
^ day is the 14th of December. The same day, the 
birthday of St. Chrysogonus, martyr. After a long 
imprisonment in chains for the constant confession 
of Christ, he was by order of Diocletian taken to 
Aquileia, where he terminated his martyrdom by be- 
ing beheaded and thrown into the sea.&mdash;At Rome, St. 
Crescentian, martyr, whose name is mentioned in the 
Acts of the blessed pope Marcellus.&mdash;At Amelia, in 
Umbria, during the persecution of Diocletian, ST. 
Firmina, virgin and martyr, who, after being sub- 
jected to various torments, to hanging, and to burn- 
ing with flaming torches, yielded up her spirit.&mdash;At 
Corinth, St. Alexander, martyr, who fought unto 
death for the faith of Christ, under Julian the Apos- 
tate and the governor Sallust.&mdash;At Cordova, the 
saintly virgins and martyrs Flora and Mary, who 
were for a long time confined in prison and slain 
with the sword, in the persecution of the Arabs.&mdash;At 



NOVEMBER. 363 

Perugia, St. Felicissimus, martyr.&mdash;At Milan, St. 
Protasius, bishop, who defended the cause of&mdash;Athana- 
sius before the emperor Constans, in the council of 
Sardica. Having sustained many labors for the 
church entrusted to him and for religion, he departed 
this life to go to the Lord.&mdash;In the castle of Blaye, 
St. Romanus, a priest, whose holiness is proclaimed 
by glorious miracles.&mdash;In Auvergne, St. Portian, an 
abbot, who was renowned for miracles in the time 
of king Theodoric. 



Cfte Ctoentgsfifti) Dap of H3otoem6er* 

HHHE birthday of St. Catharine, virgin and martyr, 
under the emperor Maximinus. For the confes- 
sion of the Christian faith, she was cast into prison 
at Alexandria, and afterwards endured a long 
scourging with whips garnished with metal, and 
finally ended her martyrdom by decapitation. Her 
body was miraculously conveyed by angels to Mount 
Sinai, where pious veneration is paid to it by a great 
concourse of Christians.&mdash;At Rome, St. Moses, priest 
and martyr, who, with others detained in prison, 
was often consoled by the letters of St. Cyprian. 
After he had withstood with unbending courage not 
only the Gentiles, but also the Novatian schismatics 
and heretics, he was finally, in the persecution of 
Decius, crowned with a martyrdom which fills the 
mind with admiration, according to the words of 



364 NOVEMBER. 

pope St. Cornelius.&mdash;At Antioch, St. Erasmus, mar- 
tyr.&mdash;At Csesarea, in Cappadocia, St. Mercury, sol- 
dier, who vanquished the barbarians and triumphed 
over the cruelty of Decius through the protection of 
his guardian angel. Finally, having acquired great 
glory from his sufferings, he was crowned with mar- 
tyrdom and went to reign forever in heaven.&mdash;In 
Emilia, a province of Italy, St. Jucunda, virgin. 



Cfte Ctoentp^fetfi Dap of i!3otoember* 

A T Fabriano, in the Marches, blessed Silvester, 
abbot, founder of the Congregation of the Silves- 
trine monks.&mdash;At Alexandria, the birthday of St. 
Peter, bishop of that city, adorned with all virtues, 
who was beheaded by the command of Galerius Max- 
imian. There suffered also at Alexandria, in the 
same persecution, the holy martyrs Faustus, priest, 
Didius and Ammonius ; likewise, Phileas, Hesychius, 
Pachomius and- Theodore, Egyptian bishops, with 
six hundred and sixty others, whom the sword of 
persecution sent to heaven.&mdash;At Nicomedia, in the 
time of Constantius, St. Marcellus, a priest, who 
died a martyr by being hurled down from a rock. 
At Padua, St. Bellinus, bishop and martyr.&mdash;At 
Rome, St. Siricius, pope and confessor, celebrated 
for his learning, piety and zeal for religion, who 
condemned various heretics, and published salutary 
laws concerning ecclesiastical discipline.&mdash;At Autun, 



NOVEMBER. 365 

St. Amator, bishop.&mdash;At Constance, St. Conrad, 
bishop.&mdash;In the diocese of Rheims, the birthday of 
St. Basolus, confessor.&mdash;At Adrianople, in Paphla- 
gonia, St. Stylian, anchoret, renowned for miracles. 
In Armenia, St. Nicon, monk.&mdash;At Rome, St. Leon- 
ard, of Port Maurice, confessor, of the Friars Minor 
of St. Francis, of the strict observance. He was 
remarkable for zeal, for he spent several years with 
extraordinary success in conducting his holy expe- 
ditions through Italy for the conquest of souls. He 
was ranked among the blessed by Pius VI., and 
among the saints by Pius IX. during the solemnities 
connected with the eighteenth centenary of the 
princes of the Apostles, Sts. Peter and Paul. 



C&e Ctoemp^etjentft Dap of H2otoem&er* 

AT Antioch, the holy martyrs Basileus, bishop, 
^* Auxilius, and Saturninus.&mdash;In Persia, St. James 
Intercisus, a distinguished martyr.&mdash;In the time of 
Theodosius the Younger, he denied Christ to please 
king Isdegerdes, but his mother and his wife having 
for that reason withdrawn from his company, he 
entered into himself, and returned to the king to 
declare his faith in our Lord, whereupon the irri- 
tated monarch condemned him to be cut to pieces 
and beheaded. Countless other martyrs suffered at 
this time in the same country.&mdash;At Sebaste, in Ar- 
menia, the holy martyrs Hirenarchus, Acacius, priest, 



366 NOVEMBER. 

and seven women. Struck with the constancy of 
these women, Hirenarchus was converted to Christ, 
and with Acacius died under the axe, in the reign of 
the emperor Diocletian and under the governor Max- 
imus.&mdash;In Galicia, on the river Ca, the Saints Fa- 
cundus and Primitivus, who suffered under the gov- 
ernor&mdash;Atticus.&mdash;At Aquileia, St. Valerian, bishop. 
At Riez, in France, St. Maximus, bishop and con- 
fessor, who, from his tender years, was endowed with 
every grace and virtue. Being first superior of the 
monastery of Lerins, and afterwards bishop of the 
church of Riez, he was celebrated for the working 
of miracles and prodigies.&mdash;At Salzburg, in Austria, 
St. Virgilius, bishop, and apostle of Carinthia, in- 
scribed among the saints by Sovereign Pontiff Greg- 
ory IX.&mdash;In&mdash;India, on the confines of Persia, the 
Saints Barlaam and Josaphat, whose wonderful 
deeds were written by St. John Damascene.&mdash;At 
Paris, the departure from this world of St. Severin, 
monk and solitary. 



Cfte Ctoentp*eigi)ti) Dap of 

A T Rome, St. Rufus, who, with all his family, was 
^ made a martyr by Diocletian.&mdash;At Corinth, the 
birthday of St. Sosthenes, disciple of the blessed 
apostle Paul, who is mentioned by that apostle in 
his epistle to the Corinthians. He was chief of the 
synagogue when converted to Christ, and, as a glori- 



NOVEMBER. 367 

ous beginning, consecrated the first fruits of his faith 
by being scourged in the presence of the proconsul 
Gallio.&mdash;In Africa, under the Arian king Genseric, 
in the persecution of the Vandals, the holy martyrs 
Papinian and Mansuetus, bishops, who, for the Cath- 
olic faith, were burned in every part of their bodies 
with hot plates of iron, and thus ended their glori- 
ous combat.&mdash;At this time also, other holy bishops. 
Valerian, Urban, Crescens, Eustachius, Cresconius, 
Crescentian, Felix, Hortulanus, and Florentian, ter- 
minated the course of their lives in exile.&mdash;At Con- 
stantinople, in the time of Constantine Copronymus, 
the holy martyrs Stephen the Younger, Basil, Peter, 
Andrew and their companions, numbering three 
hundred and thirty-nine monks, who were subjected 
to various torments for the worship of holy images, 
and confirmed the Catholic truth with the shedding 
of their blood.&mdash;At Rome, blessed pope Gregory III., 
who departed for heaven with a reputation for sanc- 
tity and miracles.&mdash;At Naples, the departure from 
this world of St. James of La Marca, confessor, of 
the Order of Minorites, celebrated for the austerity 
of his life, his apostolic manner of preaching, and 
his many legations undertaken for the success of the 
affairs of Christianity. His name was added to the 
calendar of saints by the Sovereign Pontiff, Benedict 
XIII. 



368 NOVEMBER. 



Cfie Ctoentpmintft Dap of Ji2otoem6er* 

FT1HE vigil of St. Andrew, apostle.&mdash;At Rome, on 
-* the Salarian road, the birthday of the holy mar- 
tyr Saturninus, an aged man, and the deacon Sis- 
inius, in the time of the emperor Maximian. After 
a long imprisonment, they were, by order of the pre- 
fect of the city, placed on the rack, distended with 
ropes, scourged with rods and whips garnished with 
metal, then exposed to the flames, taken down from 
the rack and beheaded.&mdash;At Toulouse, in the time of 
Decius, the holy bishop Saturninus, who was con- 
fined by the Pagans in the capitol of that city, and 
from the highest part of the building precipitated 
down the stairs; by which fall, having his head 
crushed, his brains dashed out and his whole body 
mangled, he rendered his worthy soul to our Lord. 
Also, the martyrdom of the Saints Paramon and his 
companions, to the number of three hundred and 
seventy-five, under the emperor Decius and the gov- 
ernor Aquilinus.&mdash;At Ancyra, St. Philomenus, mar- 
tyr. During the persecution of the emperor Aure- 
lian, under the governor Felix, he was first exposed 
to the flames, then having his hands, feet and head 
pierced with nails, consummated his martyrdom. 
At Veroli, the holy martyrs Blasius and Demetrius. 
At Todi, St. Illuminata, virgin. 



NOVEMBER. 369 



C6e Cfiittietf) Dap of H3otoem&er* 

A T Patras, in Achaia, the birthday of the apostle 
" St. Andrew, who preached the gospel of Christ 
in Thrace and Scythia. Being apprehended by the 
proconsul ^Egseas, he was shut up in prison, severely 
scourged, and finally, being suspended on a cross, he 
lived two days on it, teaching the people. Having 
besought our Lord not to permit that he should be 
taken down from the cross, he was surrounded with 
a great brightness from heaven, and when the light 
disappeared he breathed his last.&mdash;At Eome, the mar- 
tyrdom of the Saints Castulus and Euprepis.&mdash;At 
Constantinople, St. Maura, virgin and martyr.&mdash;Also, 
St. Justina, virgin and martyr.&mdash;At Saintes, the 
holy bishop Trojanus, a man of great sanctity, who 
shows by many miracles that he lives in heaven, 
though buried on earth.&mdash;At Rome, St. Constantius, 
confessor, who strongly opposed the Pelagians, and 
by enduring many injuries from them, gained a place 
among holy confessors.&mdash;In Palestine, blessed Zosi- 
mus, confessor, who was distinguished by sanctity 
and miracles in the time of the emperor Justin. 



24 













DECEMBER. 

C&e jFfwt Dap of December* 

| HE prophet Nahum, who was buried in Bega- 
bar.&mdash;At Rome, the holy martyrs Diodorus, 
priest, and Marian, deacon, with many oth- 
ers, who by the command of the emperor 
Numerian, were made partakers of the glory of mar- 
tyrdom.&mdash;In the same city, the martyrdom of the 
saints Lucius, Rogatus, Cassian, and Candida, The 
same day, St. Ansanus, martyr, who confessed Christ 
at Rome, and was cast into prison, in the time of the 
emperor Diocletian. Being afterwards conducted to 
Siena, in Tuscany, he there ended the course of his 
martyrdom by decapitation.&mdash;At Amelia, in Umbria, 
St. Olympias, ex-consul, who was converted to the 
faith by blessed Firmina, and being tortured on the 
rack, consummated his martyrdom under Diocle- 
tian.&mdash;At Arbele, in Persia, St. Ananias, martyr. 
At Narni, St. Proculus, bishop and martyr, who 
after performing many good works, was beheaded by 
order of Totila, king of the Goths.&mdash;At Casale, St. 
Evasius, bishop and martyr.&mdash;At Milan, St. Castri- 
tian, bishop, who was eminent for virtues and the 
practice of pious and religious deeds in very troub- 



DECEMBER. 371 

lous times for the Church.&mdash;At Brescia, St. Ursicinus, 
bishop.&mdash;At Noyon, St. Eligius, bishop, whose life is 
rendered illustrious by a considerable number of 
miracles.&mdash;At Verdun, St. Agericus, bishop. The 
same day, St. Natalia, wife of the blessed martyr 
Adrian, under the emperor Diocletian. For a long 
time she served the holy martyrs detained in prison 
at Nicomedia, and when their combats were at an 
end, she repaired to Constantinople, where she went 
peacefully to her repose in the Lord. . 



Cfie Seconti Dap of December, 

A T Rome, the martyrdom of the saintly virgin 
^*- Bibiana, under the sacrilegious emperor Julian. 
For the sake of our Lord, she was scourged with 
leaded whips until she expired.&mdash;In the same place, 
the holy martyrs Eusebius, priest, Marcellus, deacon, 
Hippolytus, Maximus, Adria, Paulina, Neon, Mary, 
Martana, and Aurelia, who consummated their mar- 
tyrdom in the persecution of Valerian, under the 
judge Secundian.&mdash;Also, at Rome, St. Pontian, mar- 
tyr, with four others.&mdash;In Africa, the birthday of the 
holy martyrs Severus, Securus, Januarius, and Vic- 
torinus, who were there crowned with martyrdom. 
At Aquileia, St. Chromatius, bishop and confessor. 
At Imola, St. Peter Chrysologus, bishop of Ravenna, 
celebrated for his learning and sanctity. His feast 



372 DECEMBER. 

is celebrated on the 4th of this month.&mdash;At Verona, 
St. Lupus, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Edessa, St. 
Nonnus, bishop, by whose prayers the penitent Pela- 
gia was converted to Christ.&mdash;At Troas, in Phrygia, 
St. Silvanus, renowned for miracles.&mdash;At Brescia, 
St. Evasius, bishop.&mdash;In Sancian, a Chinese island, 
St. Francis Xavier, of the Society of Jesus, renowned 
for the conversions he made among the Gentiles, 
and for supernatural gifts and miracles. Pius X. 
selected and appointed this holy man to be the 
heavenly patron of the Society for the Propagation 
of the Faith and its work. His festival, however, 
is kept on the 3d of this month by order of Alexan- 
der VII. 



Cfie Cin'rD Dap of Decem&er, 

. FRANCIS XAVIER, confessor, of the Society of 
Jesus, who died on the 2d of this month.&mdash;In Ju- 
dea, the holy prophet Sophonias.&mdash;At Rome, the holy 
martyrs Claudius, tribune, and Hilaria,his wife, with 
Jason and Maurus, their sons, and seventy soldiers. 
By the command of the emperor Numerian, Claudius 
was fastened to a large stone and precipitated into 
the river ; the soldiers and the sons of Claudius were 
condemned to capital punishment. But blessed 
Hilaria, after having buried the bodies of her sons, 
and whilst praying at their tomb, was arrested by 
the Pagans, and shortly after departed for heaven. 



DECEMBER. 373 

At Tangier, in Morocco, St. Cassian, martyr. After 
having been a recorder for a long time, at length, 
through the inspiration of heaven, he deemed it an 
execrable thing to contribute to the massacre of the 
Christians, and therefore abondoned his office, and 
making profession of Christianity, deserved to ob- 
tain the triumph of martyrdom.&mdash;Also, in Africa, 
the holy martyrs Claudius, Crispinus, Magina, John, 
and Stephen.&mdash;In Hungary, St. Agricola, martyr. 
At Nicomedia, the Saints Ambicus, Victor and Ju- 
lius.&mdash;At Milan, St. Mirocles, bishop and confessor, 
sometimes mentioned by St. Ambrose.&mdash;In England, 
St. Birinus, first bishop of Dorchester.&mdash;At Coire, in 
Switzerland, St. Lucius, king of the Britons, who 
was the first of those kings who received the faith of 
Christ, in the time of pope Eleutherius.&mdash;At Siena, 
in Tuscany, St. Galganus, hermit. 



Cfte Jfoiirti) Dap of December* 

. PETER CHRYSOLOGUS, bishop, confessor, 
and doctor of the church, who is mentioned on the 
2d of this month.&mdash;At Nicomedia, the passion of St. 
Barbara, virgin and martyr, in the persecution of 
Maximinus. After a series of sufferings, a long im- 
prisonment, burning with torches and the cutting 
off of her breasts, she terminated her martyrdom by 
the sword.&mdash;At Constantinople, the saints Theo- 
phanes and his companions.&mdash;In Pontus, blessed 



374 DECEMBER. 

Meletius, bishop and confessor, who joined to an emi- 
nent gift of knowledge the more distinguished glory 
of fortitude and integrity of life.&mdash;At Bologna, St. 
Felix, bishop, who previously had been deacon of 
the church of Milan, under St. Ambrose.&mdash;In Eng- 
land, St. Osmund, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Cologne, 
St. Annan, bishop.&mdash;In Mesopotamia, St. Maruthas, 
bishop, who restored the churches of God that had 
been ruined in Persia by the persecution of king 
Isdegerdes. Being renowned for many miracles, he 
merited to be honored even by his enemies.&mdash;At 
Parma, St. Bernard, cardinal and bishop of that 
city. He belonged to the Congregation of Vallum- 
brosa, of the Order of St. Benedict. 



Cfie jftftf) Dap of Decem&er, 

AT Mutala, in Cappadocia, St. Sabas, abbot, who 
** was renowned in Palestine for admirable ex- 
amples of sanctity. He labored courageously in de- 
fending the Catholic faith against those who attacked 
the holy council of Chalcedon.&mdash;At Thebesta, in 
Africa, during the time of Diocletian and Maximian, 
St. Chrispina, a woman of the highest nobility, who 
refused to sacrifice to idols, and was beheaded by 
order of the proconsul Anolinus. Her praises are 
often celebrated by St. Augustine.&mdash;At Thagura, in 
Africa, the holy martyrs Julius, Potamia, Crispinus, 
Felix, Gratus, and seven others.&mdash;At Nicaea, near the 



DECEMBER. 375 

river Var, St. Bassus, bishop.&mdash;In the persecution of 
Deems and Valerian, he was tortured by the governor 
Perennius for the faith of Christ, burned with hot 
plates of metal, beaten with rods and whips gar- 
nished with pieces of iron, and thrown into the fire. 
Having come out of it unhurt, he was transfixed with 
two spikes, and thus terminated an illustrious mar- 
tyrdom.&mdash;At Pavia, St. Dalmatius, bishop and mar- 
tyr,. who suffered in the persecution of Maximian. 
At Pelino, in Abruzzo, St. Pelinus, bishop of Brin- 
disi. Under Julian the Apostate, because by his 
prayers he caused a temple of Mars to fall to the 
ground, he was most severely scourged by the idol- 
atrous priests, and being pierced with eighty-five 
wounds, merited the crown of martyrdom.&mdash;Also, St. 
Anastasius, martyr, who, thirsting for martyrdom, 
voluntarily offered himself to the persecutors.&mdash;At 
Treves, St. Nicetius, bishop, a man of great sanctity. 
At Polybotum, in Asia, St. John, bishop, surnamed 
Wonder-worker. 



Cfte Sfetft Dap of Decem&er* 

AT Myra, the metropolis of Lycia, the birthday of 
St. Nicholas, bishop and confessor, of whom it is 
related, among other miracles, that, while at a great 
distance from the emperor Constantine, he appeared 
to him in a vision and moved him to mercy so as to 
deter him from putting to death some persons who 
had implored his assistance.&mdash;In Africa, in the per- 



376 DECEMBER. 

secution of the Vandals, and under the Arian king 
Hunneric, the saintly women Dionysia, Dativa, 
Leontia, a religious man named Tertius, ^Emilian, a 
physician, and Boniface, with three others, who were 
subjected to numberless most painful torments for 
the Catholic faith, and thus merited to rank among 
the confessors of Christ.&mdash;In the same country, St. 
Majoricus, son of St. Dionysia, who, being quite 
young and dreading the torments, was strengthened 
by the looks and words of his mother, and becoming 
stronger than the rest, expired in torments. His 
mother took him in her arms, and having buried him 
in her own house, was wont to pray assiduously at 
his sepulchre. The same day St. Polychronius, 
priest, who, in the time of the emperor Constantius, 
was attacked by the Arians and put to death while 
at the altar saying Mass.&mdash;At Granada, in Spain, the 
passion of blessed Peter Paschasius, martyr, of the 
Order of Mercedarians, and bishop of Jaen, whose 
festival is celebrated on the 23d of October, by order 
of pope Clement X.&mdash;At Home, St. Asella, virgin, 
who, according to the words of St. Jerome, being 
blessed from her mother's womb, lived to old age 
in fasting and prayer. 



Cfte >etoentj) Dap of December* 

A T Milan, the consecration of St. Ambrose, bishop 

and doctor of the Church, who has ennobled the 

universal Church by his holiness and teaching.&mdash;At 



DECEMBER. 377 

Alexandria, the birthday of blessed Agatho, soldier. 
In the persecution of Decius, as he was preventing 
some people from insulting the bodies of the martyrs, 
a sudden outcry was raised against him by all the 
populace, and being brought before the judge and 
persisting in the confession of Christ, he was con- 
demned to capital punishment as a reward for his 
humanity.&mdash;At Antioch, the holy martyrs Polycarp 
and Theodore.&mdash;At Tuburbum, in Africa, during the 
persecution of the Vandals, under the Arian king 
Hunneric, St. Servus, martyr, who, being for a very 
long time beaten with rods, lifted up on high with 
pulleys and suddenly dropped on flint-stones with 
his whole weight, and rubbed over with sharp stones, 
obtained the palm of martyrdom.&mdash;At Teano, in 
Campania, St. Urban, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At 
Saintes, in France, St. Martin, abbot, at whose tomb 
God works frequent miracles.&mdash;In the diocese of 
Meaux, St. Fara, virgin. 



Cfte OEisfttj) Dag of December, 

FT! HE Immaculate Conception of the glorious and 
ever Virgin Mary, Mother of God. On this day 
Pius IX. solemnly declared her to have been pre- 
served by a special privilege of God free from the 
stain of original sin.&mdash;At Eome, blessed Eutychian, 
pope, who with his own hands buried in various 
places three hundred and forty -two martyrs. Under 



378 DECEMBER. 

the emperor Numerian he became their companion, 
being crowned with martyrdom and buried in the 
cemetery of Callistus.&mdash;At Alexandria, in the time 
of Decius, St. Macarius, martyr, whose constancy in 
professing the faith increased with the efforts made 
by the judge to persuade him to deny Christ. He 
was finally condemned to be burned alive.&mdash;At 
Treves, St. Eucharius, disciple of the blessed apostle 
Peter, and first bishop of that city.&mdash;In Cyprus, the 
holy bishop Sophronius, who was a devoted protector 
of orphans and widows, and a friend to the poor and 
the oppressed.&mdash;In the monastery of Luxeuil, St. 
Romaricus, abbot, who left the highest station at the 
court of king Theodobert, renounced the world, and 
surpassed others in the observance of monastic dis- 
cipline.&mdash;At Constantinople, St. Patapius, solitary, 
renowned for virtues and miracles.&mdash;At Verona, the 
ordination of St. Zeno, bishop. 



Cfte Jl2im|) Dap of December* 

AT Gray, in Burgundy, St. Peter Fourier, Canon 
^ Regular of Our Saviour, and founder of the Can- 
onesses Regular of Our Lady for the education of 
girls. Because of his brilliant virtues and miracles 
Leo XIII. placed him in the catalogue of Saints. 
At Toledo, in Spain, the birthday of the holy virgin 
Leocadia, a martyr, in the persecution of the em- 
peror Diocletian. By Dacian, prefect of Spain, she 



DECEMBER. 379 

was condemned to a cruel imprisonment, where she 
was pining away, when, hearing of the barbarous 
tortures of blessed Eulalia and the other martyrs, 
she knelt down to pray, and yielded up her undefiled 
spirit to Christ.&mdash;At Carthage, St. Restitutus, bishop 
and martyr, on whose feast St. Augustine delivered a 
discourse to the people in which he set forth his 
praises.&mdash;Also, in Africa, the holy martyrs Peter, 
Successus, Bassian, Primitivus and twenty others. 
At Limoges, in France, St. Valeria, virgin and mar- 
tyr.&mdash;At Verona, during the persecution of Diocle- 
tian, St. Proculus, bishop, who was buffeted, scourged 
with rods and driven out of the city. Being at 
length restored to his church, he rested in peace. 
At Pavia, St. Syrus, first bishop of that city, who 
was renowned for miracles and virtues worthy of an 
apostle.&mdash;At Apamea, in Syria, blessed Julian, bish- 
op, who was distinguished for holiness in the time 
of Severus.&mdash;At Perigueux, in France, the holy abbot 
Cyprian, a man of great sanctity.&mdash;At Nazianzus, St. 
Gorgonia, sister of blessed Gregory the Theologian, 
who has related her virtues and miracles. 



Cfte Cent!) Dag of Decem&er, 

A T Rome, pope St. Melchiades, who, having suffered 
" much in the persecution of Maximian, rested in 
the Lord when peace was given to the Church. The 
same day, Saints Carpophorus, priest, and Abundius, 



380 DECEMBER. 

deacon, who became martyrs in the persecution of 
Diocletian. They were first most cruelly beaten with 
rods, then imprisoned and denied food and drink; 
being racked a second time and again thrown into 
prison, they were finally beheaded.&mdash;At Merida, in 
Spain, in the time of Maximian, the martyrdom of 
the holy virgin Eulalia, who, at twelve years of age, 
suffered many torments for the confession of Christ, 
by order of the governor Dacian. Finally she was 
stretched on the rack, torn with iron hooks, had her 
sides burned with flaming torches, and fire being 
forced down her throat, she expired. Again, in the 
same city, St. Julia, virgin and martyr, the compan- 
ion of blessed Eulalia, who would not be separated 
from her when the latter went to suffer.&mdash;At Alex- 
andria, the holy martyrs Mennas, Hermogenes and 
Eugraphus, who suffered under Galerius Maximian. 
At Lentini, in Sicily, the holy martyrs Mercury 
and his companions, soldiers, who were beheaded 
under the governor Tertyllus, in the time of the em- 
peror Licinius.&mdash;At Ancyra, in Galatia, St. Gemellus, 
martyr, who, after severe torments, consummated his 
martyrdom by being crucified, under Julian the 
Apostate.&mdash;At Vienne, St. Sindulphus, bishop and 
confessor.&mdash;At Brescia, St. Deusdedit, bishop.&mdash;At 
Loretto, in the March of Ancona, the Translation of 
the holy house of Mary, Mother of God, in which the 
Word was made flesh. 



DECEMBER. 381 



Cfte (ZBletoentf) Dap of Decertifies 

AT Borne, St. Damasus, pope and confessor, who 
condemned the heresiarch Apollinaris, and re- 
stored to his see Peter, bishop of Alexandria, who 
had been driven from it. He also discovered the 
bodies of many holy martyrs, and wrote verses in 
their honor.&mdash;Also, at Rome, St. Thrason, who was 
arrested by order of Maximian for devoting his 
wealth to the support of the Christians who labored 
in the baths and at other public works, or were con- 
fined in prison. He was crowned with martyrdom 
with two others, Pontian and Prsetextatus.&mdash;At 
Amiens, the holy martyrs Victoricus and Fuscian, 
under the same emperor. By order of the governor 
Bictiovarus, they had iron pins driven into their ears 
and nostrils, heated nails into their temples, and ar- 
rows into their whole bodies. Being beheaded with 
St. Gentian, their host, they went to our Lord.&mdash;In 
Persia, St. Barsabas, martyr.&mdash;In Spain, St. Euty- 
chius, martyr.&mdash;At Piacenza, St. Sabinus, a bishop 
renowned for miracles.&mdash;At Constantinople, St. 
Daniel the Stylite. 



Cfie Ctoelftfi Dag of December* 

AT Borne, the holy martyr Synesius, who was or- 
" dained lector in the time of the blessed pope 
Xystus. Having converted many to Christ, he was 



382 DECEMBER. 

accused before the emperor Aurelian, and being put 
to the sword, received the crown of martyrdom. 
At Alexandria, in the time of Decius, the holy mar- 
tyrs Epimachus and Alexander, who were kept in 
chains a long time, and subjected to various tor- 
ments.; but as they persevered in the faith, they were 
finally consumed by fire.&mdash;In the same place, the 
holy women Ammonaria, virgin, Mercuria, Dionysia, 
and another Ammonaria. The first named, after 
having triumphed over unheard-of torments, in the 
same persecution of Decius, ended her blessed life by 
the sword. As to the three others, the judge being 
ashamed to be overcome by women, and fearing that 
by resorting to tortues, he would be vanquished by 
their constancy, he ordered them to be beheaded im- 
mediately. The same day, the holy martyrs Hermo- 
genes, Donatus, and twenty-two others.&mdash;At Treves, 
the holy martyrs Maxentius, Constantius, Crescent- 
ius, Justinus, and their companions, who suffered in 
the persecution of Diocletian, under the governor 
Rictiovarus. 



Cfte Cfiitteenti) Dap of December. 

A T Syracuse, in Sicily, the birthday of St. Lucy, 
virgin and martyr, in the persecution of Dio- 
cletian. By the order of the ex-consul Paschasius, 
she was delivered to profligates, that her chastity 
might be insulted; but when they attempted to lead 



DECEMBER. 383 

her away, they could not succeed, either with ropes 
or with many yoke of oxen. Then pouring hot pitch, 
rosin, and boiling oil over her body without injuring 
her, they finally plunged a sword into her throat, and 
thus completed her martyrdom.&mdash;In Armenia, the 
martyrdom of the holy martyrs Eustratius, Auxent- 
ius, Eugene, Mardarius, and Orestes, in the persecu- 
tion of Diocletian. Eustratius was first subjected 
alone to barbarous torments under Lysias. Then he 
was conducted to Sebaste, where he was tortured to- 
gether with Orestes under the governor Agricolaus, 
and being cast into a furnace, yielded up his soul; 
but Orestes being laid on a bed of red-hot iron, ren- 
dered his sould to God. The others were made to en- 
dure most grievous torments among the Arabraci, un- 
der the governor Lysias, and consummated their 
martyrdom in different manners. Their relics were 
afterwards carried to Rome, and placed with due 
honors in the church of St. Apollinaris. Near Sar- 
dinia, in the island of Solta, the martyrdom of St. 
Antiochus, under the emperor Adrian.&mdash;At Cambrai, 
in France, St. Aubertus, bishop and confessor.&mdash;In 
Ponthieu, St. Judocus, confessor.&mdash;In&mdash;Alsace, St. 
Othilia, abbess.&mdash;At Moulins, in France, the birth- 
day of St. Jane Frances Fremiot de Chantal, 
foundress of the nuns of the Visitation of St. Mary, 
distinguished by the nobility of her birth, by the 
holiness she constantly manifested in four different 
states of life, and by the gift of miracles. She was 
placed among the saints by Clement XIII. Her 



384 DECEMBER. 

sacred body was conveyed to Annecy, in Savoy, and 
interred with great pomp in the first church of her 
Order. By the command of Clement XIV., her festi- 
val is kept by the whole Church on the 21st of 
August. 



C&e jFoitrteentl) Dap of December, 

A T Alexandria, the holy martyrs Heron, Arsenius, 
^ Isidore and Dioscorus, a boy.&mdash;In the persecu- 
tion of Decius, the first three were subjected to all 
the refinements of cruelty by the judge, who, seeing 
them displaying the same constancy, ordered that 
they should be cast into the fire. But Dioscorus, 
after repeated scourgings, was set free through the 
intervention of Providence for the consolation of 
the faithful.&mdash;At Antioch, the birthday of the holy 
martyrs Drusus, Zosimus and Theodore. The same 
day, the martyrdom of the Saints Justus and Abund- 
ius, who were cast into ~the flames in the time of the 
emperor Numerian and the governor Olybrius; but 
having escaped uninjured, they were struck with the 
sword.&mdash;At Eheims, the holy bishop Nicasius, his 
sister, the virgin Eutropia, and their companions, 
martyrs, who were put to death by barbarians hostile 
to the Church.&mdash;In the island of Cyprus, the birthday 
of blessed Spiridion, bishop. He was one of those 
confessors who were condemned to labor in the mines, 
after the plucking out of their right eye and the 



DECEMBER. 385 

severing of the sinews of the left knee. This prelate 
was renowned for the gift of prophecy and glorious 
miracles, and in the council of Nicrca he confounded 
a heathen philosopher who insulted the Christian 
religion and brought him to the faith.&mdash;At Bergamo, 
St. Viator, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Pavia, St. 
Pompey, bishop.&mdash;At Naples, in Campania, St. Ag- 
nellus, abbot. Illustrious by the gift of miracles, he 
was often seen with the standard of the 'cross deliver- 
ing the city besieged by enemies.&mdash;At Ubeda, in 
Spain, St. John of the Cross, confessor, companion 
of St. Theresa in reforming the Carmelites. His 
feast is kept on the 24th of November.&mdash;At Milan, St. 
Matronian, hermit. 



Cfje jFifteentfc Dap of December* 

fTlHE Octave of the Immaculate Conception of the 
Blessed Virgin Mary. The same day, the conse- 
cration of St. Eusebius, bishop of Vercelli, whose 
birthday is commemorated on the 1st of August. 
His feast is kept on the 16th of this month, by order 
of pope Benedict XIII.&mdash;At Rome, the holy martyrs 
Irenaeus, Anthony, Theodore, Saturninus, Victor and 
seventeen others, who suffered for Christ in the per- 
secution of Valerian.&mdash;In Africa, the martyrdom of 
the Saints Faustinus, Lucius, Candidus, Caelian, 
Mark, Januarius and Fortunatus.&mdash;In the same 
country, the holy bishop Valerian, who, being up- 

25 



386 DECEMBER. 

wards of eighty years old, in the persecution of the 
Vandals, under the Arian king Genseric, was asked 
to deliver the vessels of the church, and as he con- 
stantly refused, an order was issued to drive him all 
alone out of the city, and all were forbidden to allow 
him to stay either in their houses or on their land. 
For a long time he remained lying on the public 
road, in the open air, and thus, in the confession and 
defence of the Catholic verity, closed his blessed life. 
In the diocese of Orleans, St. Maximinus, confes- 
sor.&mdash;In Georgia, beyond the Euxine sea, St. Chris- 
tiana, who, though a slave, was so gifted with the 
power of working miracles that she converted the in- 
habitants of that country to the faith of Christ, in 
the time of Cons tan tine. 



Cfte Steteetttj) Dap of December. 

ST. EUSEBIUS, bishop of Vercelli and martyr, 
mentioned on the 1st of August, and also on the 
15th of this month. The young men, Ananias, Azar- 
ias and Misael, whose bodies were buried in a cavern 
at Babylon.&mdash;At Ravenna, the holy martyrs Valen- 
tine, military officer, Concordius, his son, Navalis, 
and Agricola, who suffered for Christ in the 
persecution of Maximian.&mdash;At Mola-di-Gaeta, in 
Campania, St. Albina, virgin and martyr, under the 
emperor Decius.&mdash;In Africa, many holy virgins, who 



DECEMBER. 387 

reached a happy termination of their martyrdom in 
the persecution of the Vandals, under the Arian king 
Hunneric, by having heavy weights tied to them, and 
burning plates of metal applied to their bodies.&mdash;At 
Vienne, blessed Ado, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Aber- 
deen, in Scotland, St. Beanus, bishop.&mdash;At Gaza, in 
Palestine, St. Irenian, bishop. 



Cfte Seventeenth Dag oJ December, 

AT Eleutheropolis, in Palestine, the holy martyrs 
" Florian, Calanicus and their fifty-eight compan- 
ions, who were massacred by the Saracens for the 
faith of Christ, in the time of the emperor Heraclius. 
At Marseilles, in France, blessed Lazarus, bishop, 
who was raised from the dead by our Lord, as we 
read in the Gospel.&mdash;At Rome, St. John de Matha, 
founder of the Order of the Most Holy Trinity for 
the Redemption of Captives. His festival is observed 
on the 8th of February, according to the decree of 
Innocent XI.&mdash;In the monastery of Fulda, the holy 
abbot Sturmius, abbot and apostle of Saxony, who 
was ranked among the saints by&mdash;Innocent II., in the 
second Council of Lateran.&mdash;At Bigarden, near Brus- 
sels, St. Vivina, virgin, whose eminent sanctity is at- 
tested by frequent miracles.&mdash;At Constantinople, St. 
Olympiades, widow.&mdash;At Andenne, at the Seven 
Churches, St. Begga, widow, sister of St. Gertrude. 
The same day, the translation of St. Ignatius, bishop 



388 DECEMBER. 

and martyr, who, the third after the blessed apostle 
Peter, governed the Church of Antioch. His body 
was conveyed from Rome, where he had suffered un- 
der Trajan, to Antioch, and deposited in the church 
cemetery beyond the gate of Daphnis. St. John 
Chrysostom, on that solemn occasion, delivered a 
discourse to his people. But afterwards his relics 
were carried back to Rome, and placed with the high- 
est reverence in the church of St. Clement, together 
with the body of that blessed pope and martyr. 



Cfie OEtgftteentJ) Dap of December* 

A T Philippi, in Macedonia, the birthday of the holy 
" martyrs Ruf us and Zosimus,who were of the num- 
ber of the disciples, by whom the primitive church 
was founded among the Jews and the Greeks. Their 
happy martyrdom is mentioned by St. Polycarp, in 
his epistle to the Philippians.&mdash;At Laodicea, in Syria, 
the martyrdom of the Saints Theotimus and Ba- 
silian.&mdash;In Africa, the holy martyrs Quinctus, 
Simplicius, and others, who suffered in the persecu- 
tion of Decius and Valerian.&mdash;In the same country, 
St. Moysetes, martyr.&mdash;Also, in Africa, the holy mar- 
tyrs Victurus, Victor, Victorinus, Adjutor, Quartus, 
and thirty others.&mdash;At Mopsuestia, in Cilicia, St. 
Auxentius, bishop, who, while he was a soldier under 
Licinius, preferred to surrender his military insignia 



DECEMBER. 389 

rather than to offer grapes to Bacchus. Having been 
made bishop, he was renowned for merit, and rested 
in peace.&mdash;At Tours, St. Gratian, consecrated first 
bishop of that city by pope St. Fabrian. Celebrated 
for many miracles, he calmly went to his repose in 
the Lord. 



Cfie jQineteemj) Dap of Decem&er, 

A T Alexandria, in Egypt, blessed Nemesius, martyr, 
** who was first denounced before the judge as a 
robber, but on being freed from that charge, was soon 
after, in the persecution of Decius, accused before 
the judge Emilian of being a Christian. By him he 
was twice subjected to the torture, and condemned to 
be burned alive with robbers, thus bearing a resem- 
blance to our Saviour, who was crucified with thieves. 
At Niaea, the Saints Darius, Zosimus, Paul, and 
Secundus, martyrs.&mdash;At Nicomedia, the holy mar- 
tyrs Cyriacus, Paulillus, Secundus, Anastasius, Sin- 
dimius, and their companions.&mdash;In Mauritania (Bar- 
bary), St. Timothy, deacon, who, after enduring a 
painful imprisonment for the faith of Christ, was 
cast into the fire, where he consummated his martyr 
dom.&mdash;At Gaza, in Palestine, the martyrdom of the 
Saints Meuris and Thea.&mdash;At Avignon, blessed Ur- 
ban V., who deserved well of the Church by restoring 
the Apostolic See to Rome, by bringing about a re- 
union of the Latins and the Greeks, and by suppress- 



390 DECEMBER. 

ing heretics. Pius IX. approved and confirmed the 
veneration which had long been paid to him.&mdash;At 
Auxerre, St. Gregory, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At 
Orleans, St. Adjutus, an abbot renowned for the 
spirit of prophecy.&mdash;At Rome, St. Fausta, mother of 
St. Anastasia, distinguished for noble birth and 
piety. 



Cfte Ctoemietft Dap of December, 

fJlHE vigil of St. Thomas, apostle.&mdash;At Rome, the 
holy martyrs Liberatus and Bajulus.&mdash;At Alex- 
andria, the holy martyrs Ammon, Zeno, Ptolemy, 
Ingen, and Theophilus, soldiers, who, standing near 
the tribunals, and seeing a Christian trembling un- 
der the torture and almost on the point of apostatiz- 
ing, endeavored to encourage him by their looks and 
by signs, and when for this reason the whole people 
raised an outcry against them, they rushed forward, 
and declared themselves Christians. By their vic- 
tory, Christ, who had given to them such fortitude, 
triumphed most gloriously.&mdash;At Gelduba, St. Julius, 
martyr.&mdash;In Arabia, the holy martyrs Eugene and 
Macarius, priests. For reproving Julian the Apos- 
tate for his impiety, they received a most severe 
scourging, were banished to a vast desert, and finally 
were put to the sword.&mdash;At Antioch, the birthday of 
St. Philogonius, bishop, who was called by the will 



DECEMBER. 391 

of God from the practice of law to the government of 
that church. With the saintly bishop Alexander 
and other auxiliaries, he engaged the first combat for 
the Catholic faith against Arius, and, being renowned 
for merits, rested in the Lord. His festival was 
commemorated by St. John Chrysostom with an ex- 
cellent panegyric.&mdash;At Brescia, St. Dominic, bishop 
and confessor.&mdash;In Spain, the departure from this 
world of St. Dominic de Sylos, abbot, of the Order 
of St. Benedict, most renowned for the miracles he 
wrought for the deliverance of captives. 



C&e Ctoetttg'first Dap of December, 

4 T Calamina, the birthday of the blessed apostle 
^ Thomas, who preached the Gospel to the Parth- 
ians, the Medes, the Persians and Hyrcanians. Hav- 
ing finally penetrated into&mdash;India, and instructed 
those nations in the Christian religion, he died trans- 
pierced with lances by order of the king. His re- 
mains were first taken to the city of Edessa and then 
to Ortona.&mdash;In Tuscany, the holy martyrs John and 
Festus.&mdash;In Lycia, St. Themistocles, martyr, who 
under the emperor Decius, offered himself in the 
place of St. Dioscorus, who was sought after to be 
killed, and being racked, dragged about and beaten 
with rods, obtained the crown of martyrdom.&mdash;At 
Nicomedia, during the persecution of Diocletian, St. 



392 DECEMBER. 

Glycerins, a priest, who was subjected to many tor- 
ments, and finally completed his martyrdom by be- 
ing cast into the flames.&mdash;At Antioch, St. Anastasius, 
bishop and martyr, who was cruelly murdered by the 
Jews during the reign of Phocas.&mdash;At Treves, St. 
Severin, bishop and confessor. 



Cfie Ctoemg'0eccmD Dap of December. 

A T Rome, between the two bay -trees on the Lavican 
road, the birthday of thirty holy martyrs, who 
were ajl on one day crownd with martyrdom, in the 
persecution of Diocletian.&mdash;In the same city, St. 
Flavian, ex-prefect, who, under Julian the Apostate, 
was condemned to be branded for Christ, and ban- 
ished to Aquae Taurinae, where he gave up his soul 
to God in prayer.&mdash;At Ostia, the holy martyrs Deme- 
trius, Honoratus and Florus.&mdash;At Alexandria, the 
holy martyr Ischyrion. Because he dispised all the 
cruelties they made him suffer to force him to sacri- 
fice to idols, they transpierced his bowels with a 
sharp-pointed stake, and thus put him to death.&mdash;In 
Egypt, the Saint Chseremon, bishop of Mlopolis, and 
many other martyrs. Some of them fled whilst the 
persecution of Decius was raging, and wandering in 
different directions through deserts, were killed by 
wild beasts; others perished by famine, cold and 
sickness; others again were murdered by barbarians 



DECEMBER. 393 

and robbers, and thus all were crowned with a 
glorious martyrdom.&mdash;At Nicomedia, St. Zeno, sol- 
dier, who derided Diocletian for sacrificing to Ceres, 
wherefore he had his jawbones fractured, his teeth 
plucked out and his head struck off. 



Cfte Ctoemp'tfcirD Dap of SDecem&er, 

A T Rome, the holy virgin Victoria, a martyr, in the 
** persecution of the emperor Decius. She had 
been promised in marriage to a pagan named Eu- 
gene, but because she refused to marry him and to 
offer sacrifice to idols, and because by working many 
miracles, she brought many virgins to the service 
of God, she was, at the request of her betrothed, 
stabbed in the heart with a sword by the executioner. 
At Nicomedia, the birthday of twenty holy mar- 
tyrs, whom the persecution of Diocletian made mar- 
tyrs for the faith of Christ, after subjecting them to 
the most painful torments.&mdash;In the same place, the 
Saints Migdonius and Mardonius ; one of whom was 
burned alive in the same persecution, and the other 
died in a pit into which he had been thrown. A 
deacon of St. Anthimus, bishop of Nicomedia, suf- 
fered at the same time. He was arrested by the 
Gentiles when carrying letters to the martyrs, and 
being overwhelmed with stones, went to our Lord. 
In Crete, the holy martyrs Theodulus, Saturninus, 



394 DECEMBER. 

Euporus, Gelasius, Eunician, Zeticus, Cleomenes, 
Agathopus, Gelasius, and Evaristus, who were be- 
headed, after suffering cruel torments, in the perse- 
cution of Decius.&mdash;At Rome, blessed Servulus, of 
whom St. Gregory writes, that a paralytic from his 
early years to the end of his life, he remained lying 
in a porch near St. Clement's Church, and being in- 
vited by the chant of angels, he went to enjoy the 
glory of Paradise.&mdash;At his tomb, frequent miracles 
are wrought by Almighty God. 



Cfie Ctoemp*fourti) Dap of Decem&er, 

flHHE vigil of the Nativity of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
At Antioch, during the persecution of Decius, 
the birthday of forty holy virgins, who suffered mar- 
tyrdom by various kinds of torments.-&mdash;At Spoleto, 
the holy priest Gregory.&mdash;In the time of the em- 
perors Diocletian and Maximian, he was first beaten 
with rough clubs, and then after being exposed on 
the gridiron and imprisoned, was struck on the 
knees with iron carding instruments, burned on the 
sides with firebrands, and finally beheaded.&mdash;At 
Tripoli, the holy martyrs Lucian, Metrobius, Paulus, 
Zenobius, Theotimus, and Drusus.&mdash;At Nicomedia, 
during the persecution of Diocletian, St. Euthymius, 
martyr, who sent many before him to martyrdom, 
and being pierced with a sword, followed them to 



DECEMBER. 395 

share their crown.&mdash;At Bordeaux, St. Delphinus, a 
bishop, who was renowned for holiness, in the time 
of Theodosius.&mdash;In Poland, St. John Cantius, secular 
priest and confessor, celebrated for his learning, his 
zeal in propagating the faith, and for his virtues and 
miracles. His feast is kept on the 20th of October. 

At Rome, the birthday of the holy virgin Tharsilla, 
aunt of pope St. Gregory, who writes of her that at 
the hour of her death she saw Jesus coming to her. 

At Treves, St. Irmina, virgin, daughter of king 
Dagobert. 



Cfte Ctoemp-fiftft Dap of Decent feet, 

TN the year, from the creation of the world, when 
in the beginning God created heaven and earth, 
five, thousand, one hundred and ninety-nine; from 
the flood, two thousand, nine hundred and fifty- 
seven; from the birth of Abraham, two thousand 
and fifteen; from Moses and the coming of the 
Israelites out of Egypt, one thousand, five hundred 
and ten; from the anointing of king David, one 
thousand and thirty-two; in the sixty-fifth week, 
according to the prophecy of Daniel ; in the one 
hundred and ninety-fourth Olympiad; in the year 
seven hundred and fifty-two from the founding of 
the city of Rome; in the forty-second year of the 
empire of Octavian Augustus, when the whole earth 
was at peace, in the sixth age of the world, Jesus 



396 DECEMBER, 

Christ, eternal God, and Son of the eternal Father, 
desirous to sanctify the world by His most merciful 
coming, having been conceived of the Holy Ghost, 
and nine months having elapsed since his conception, 
is born in Bethlehem of Juda, having become man 
of the Virgin Mary. THE NATIVITY OF OUR LORD 
JESUS CHRIST, ACCORDING TO THE FLESH. The same 
day, the birthday of St. Anastasia, who, in the time 
of Diocletian, first suffered a severe and harsh im- 
prisonment on the part of her husband Publius, in 
which, however, she was much consoled and en- 
couraged by the confessor of Christ, Chrysogonus. 
Afterwards she was thrown into- prison again by 
order of Florus, prefect of Illyria; and finally, hav- 
ing her hands and feet stretched out, she was tied 
to stakes, with a fire kindled about her, in the midst 
of which she ended her martyrdom in the island of 
Palmarola, whither she had been conveyed with two 
hundred men and seventy women, who have made 
martyrdom a glorious thing by the various kinds of 
death they so courageously endured.&mdash;At Rome, in 
the cemetery of Apronian, St. Eugenia, virgin.&mdash;In 
the time of the emperor Gallienus, after working 
many miracles and gathering to Christ troops of 
sacred virgins, and after long combats under Nice- 
tius, prefect of the city, she was finally put to the 
sword.&mdash;At Nicomedia, many thousand martyrs, 
who had assembled for divine service on our Lord's 
nativity, when the emperor Diocletian, ordering the 
doors of the church to be closed, and fire to be 



DECEMBER. 397 

kindled here and there, as also a vessel with incense 
to be put before the entrance, and a man to cry out 
that those who wished to escape from the conflagra- 
tion should come out and burn incense to Jupiter, 
all with one voice answered that they preferred to 
die for Christ. They were consumed in the fire, and 
thus merited to be born in heaven on the day on 
which Christ vouchsafed to be born on earth for the 
salvation of the world.&mdash;At Barcelona, in Spain, the 
birthday of St. Peter Nolasco, confessor, and founder 
of the Order of Mercedarians, renowned for virtue 
and miracles. His feast is celebrated on the 31st of 
January, by order of Alexander VII. 



Cfce Ctoentp*0fet|) Dap of December* 

A T Jerusalem, the birthday of St. Stephen, the first 
" martyr, who was stoned to death by the Jews 
shortly after the Ascension of our Lord.&mdash;At Home, 
St. Marinus, senator.&mdash;In. the time of the emperor 
Numerian and the prefect Marcian, he was arrested 
for the Christian religion, racked and torn with iron 
hooks like a slave, then thrown into a burning pan ; 
but being delivered because the fire became like dew, 
he was exposed to the beasts without being injured 
by them, and finally being led again to the altar, the 
idols of which toppled over at his prayer, he was 
struct with the sword, and thus obtained the 



398 DECEMBER. 

triumph of martyrs.&mdash;Also, at Rome, on the Appiaii 
road, the decease of pope St. Denis, who sustained 
many labors for the Church, and was renowned for 
his doctrinal writings.&mdash;In the same city, St. Zosir 
mus, pope and confessor.&mdash;In Mesopotamia, St. 
Archelaus, a bishop celebrated for learning and 
sanctity.&mdash;At Majuma, St. Zeno, bishop.&mdash;At Rome, 
St. Theodore, sacristan of St. Peter's church, who is 
mentioned by the blessed pope Gregory. 



Ctoentp^etientf) Dap of Decem&er* 

AT Ephesus, the birthday of St. John, apostle and 
evangelist, who, after writing his gospel, and 
after enduring exile and writing the divine Apoca- 
lypse, lived till the time of the emperor Trajan, 
and founded and governed the churches of all Asia. 
Worn out with age, he died in the sixty-eighth year 
after the passion of our Lord, and was buried near 
Ephesus.&mdash;At Alexandria, St. Maximus, bishop, who 
became a renowned and distinguished confessor of 
the faith.&mdash;At Constantinople, the holy confessors 
Theodore and Theophanes, brothers, who were 
brought up from their childhood in the monastery 
of St. Sabbas. Afterwards, combating bravely for 
the worship of holy images against Leo the Armen- 
ian, they were scourged by his command and ban- 
ished. After his death, they again firmly opposed 



DECEMBER. 399 

the emperor Theophilus, who was imbued with the 
same impiety, and were scourged a second time and 
driven into exile, where Theodore expired in prison. 
Theophanes, after peace had at length been restored 
to the Church, was made bishop of Niaea and rested 
in the Lord.&mdash;In the same city, St. Niceras, virgin, 
who was renowned for sanctity, in the time of the 
emperor Arcadius. 



Cfte Ctoewp*eigi)t!) Dag of December* 

TN Bethlehem, of Juda, the birthday of the Holy 
Innocents, who were massacred for Christ by 
king Herod.&mdash;At Ancyra, in Galatia, the holy mar- 
tyrs Eutychius, priest, and Domitian, deacon.&mdash;In 
Africa, the birthday of the holy martyrs Castor, 
Victor and Rogatian.&mdash;At Nicomedia, the holy mar- 
tyrs&mdash;Indes, eunuch, Domna, Agapes and Theophila, 
virgins, and their companions, who, after long com- 
bats, attained to the crown of martyrdom by various 
kinds of death during the persecution of Diocletian. 
At Neocaesarea, in Pontus, St. Troadius, martyr, 
in the persecution of Decius. During his combat 
St. Gregory Thaumaturgus appeared to him in spirit, 
and encouraged him to undergo martyrdom.&mdash;At 
Arabissus, in Lower Armenia, St. Ca3sarius, a mar- 
tyr who suffered under Galerius Maximian.&mdash;At 
Lyons, in France, the birthday of St. Francis of 



400 DECEMBER. 

Sales, bishop of Geneva, ranked among the saints by 
Alexander VII., because of his most ardent zeal for 
the conversion of heretics. His festival, by order of 
the same Pontiff, is kept on the 29th of January, 
when his sacred body was translated from Lyons 
to Annecy. Pius IX. confirmed a decree of the 
Sacred Congregation of Rites, declaring him Doctor 
of the universal Church.&mdash;At Rome, St. Domnion, 
priest.&mdash;In Egypt, St. Theodore, monk, disciple of 
St. Pachomius.&mdash;In the monastery of Lerins, St. An- 
thony, a monk renowned for miracles. 



Cfte Ctoemp*mmft Dag of December, 

A T Canterbury, in England, the birthday of St. 
"* Thomas, bishop and martyr, who, for the defence 
of justice and ecclesiastical immunities, was struck 
with the sword in his own basilica by a faction of im- 
pious men, and thus went to Christ.&mdash;At Jerusalem, 
holy David, king and prophet.&mdash;At Aries, the birth- 
day of St. Trophimus, mentioned by St. Paul in his 
epistle to Timothy. Being consecrated bishop by 
that apostle, he was the first sent to preach the 
gospel of Christ in that city. From his preaching 
as from a fountain, according to the expression of 
pope St. Zosimus, all Gaul received the waters of 
salvation.&mdash;At Rome, the holy martyrs Callistus, 
Felix and Boniface.&mdash;In Africa, the holy martyrs 



DECEMBER. 401 

Dominic, Victor, Primian, Lybosus, Saturninus, 
Crescentius, Secundus and Honoratus.&mdash;At Vienne, 
in France, St. Crescens, disciple of the blessed! 
apostle Paul, and first bishop of that city.&mdash;At Con- 
stantinople, St. Marcellus, abbot.&mdash;In Normandy, St. 
Ebrnlphus, abbot and confessor, in the time of king 
Childebert. 



Cfte CJnttietj) Dag of December* 

A T Spoleto, the birthday of the holy martyrs Sabi- 
nus, bishop, Exuperantius and Marcellus, dea- 
cons ; also of Venustian, governor, with his wife and 
sons, under the emperor Maximian. Marcellus and 
Exuperantius were first racked, then severely beaten 
with rods; afterwards being mangled with iron 
hooks, and burned in the sides, they terminated their 
martyrdom. Not long after, Venustian was put to 
the sword with his w-ife and sons. St. Sabinus, 
after having his hands cut off, and being a long time 
confined in prison, was scourged to death. The mar- 
tyrdom of these saints is commemorated on the same 
day, although it occurred at different times.&mdash;At 
Alexandria, the holy martyrs Mansuetus, Severus, 
Appian, Donatus, Honorius, and their companions. 
At Thessalonica, St. Anysia, martyr.&mdash;In the same 
place, St. Anysius, bishop of that city.&mdash;At Milan, 
St. Eugene, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Ravenna, St. 



402 DECEMBER. 

Liberius, bishop.&mdash;At Aquila, in Abruzzo, St. Raine- 
rius, bishop. 



Cfie Cinrtgsfiw Dap of December* 

AT Rome, the birthday of pope St. Silvester, who 
" baptized the emperor Constantine the Great, and 
confirmed the Council of Nicaea. After performing 
many other holy deeds, he rested in peace.&mdash;Also, at 
Rome, on the Salarian road, in the cemetery of 
Priscilla, the holy martyrs Donata, Paulina, Rustica, 
Nominanda, Serotina, Hilaria and their companions. 
At Sens, the blessed Sabinian, bishop, and Potent- 
ian, who being sent thither by the Roman Pontiff to 
preach, illustrated that metropolitan church by their 
confession and martyrdom.&mdash;In the same place, St. 
Columba, virgin and martyr, who after having 
triumphed over fire, was beheaded, in the persecu- 
tion of the emperor Aurelian.&mdash;At Retiers, St. Her- 
mes, exorcist.&mdash;At Catania, in Sicily, the martyrdom 
of the Saints Stephen, Pontian,&mdash;Attains, Fabian, 
Cornelius, Sextus, Flos, Quinctian, Minervinus and 
Simplician. The same day, St. Zoticus, Roman 
priest, who went to Constantinople, and took upon 
himself the care of orphans.&mdash;At Ravenna, St. Par- 
batian, priest and confessor. The same day, St.* 
Melania the Younger, who withdrew from R< me with 
her husband Pinian, and went to Jerusalem, whore 



DECEMBER. 403 

both embraced the religious life, she among the 
women consecrated to God, and he among the monks, 
and ended their career in peace. 

And in other places, many other holy martyrs, 
confessors, and virgins Answer: Thanks be to God. 



INDEX. 



A. 

Aaron, St., Pr July 1 

Aaron, St., M July 1 

Abachum, St., M Jan. 19 

Abdechalas, St., Pr., M.Apr. 21 
Abdias, St., Prophet .. Nov. 19 
Abdiesus, St., D., M...Apr. 22 

Abdon, St., M July 30 

Abercius, St., B Oct. 22 

Abibo, St Aug. 3 

Abibus, St., D., M Nov. 15 

Abilius, St., B Feb. 22 

Abraham, Hermit Men. 16 

Abraham, St., C June 15 

Abraham, St.,Patriarch.Oct. 9 

Absalon, St., M Nih. 2 

Abudemius, St., M July 15 

Abundantius, St., M . . . Nih. 1 
Abundantius, St., D., M., 

Sept. 16 

Abundius, St., M Feb. 27 

Abundius, St., B., C...Apr. 2 
Abundius, St., Sacris- 
tan Apr. 14 

Abundius, St., Pr., M..July 11 

Abundius, St., M Aug. 26 

Abundius, St., Pr., M.Sept. 16 
Abundius, St., D., M..Dec. 10 

Abundius, St., M Dec. 14 

Acacius, St., Pr., M . . . Nov. 27 
Acathius, St., Centu- 
rion, M May 8 

Acatius, St., B Apr. 9 

Acatius, St., M Apr. 28 

Acatius, St., M July 28 

Accursius, St., M Jan. 16 

Acepsimas, St., B., M..Apr. 22 

Achillas, St., B Nov. 7 

Achilleus, St., D., M...Apr. 23 
Achilleus, St., M May 12 



Aciiidinus, St., M Apr. 29 

Acindynus, St., M., and 

companions Nov. 2 

Acisclus, St., M Nov. 17 

Acutius, St., M Sept. 19 

Acyllinus, St., M July 17 

Adalbert, St., B., M...Apr. 23 

Adauctus, St., M Aug. 30 

Adaucus, St., M., and 

many others Feb. 7 

Adelbert, St., C June 25 

Adelphus, St., B., C. . .Aug. 29 
Aderitus, St., B., C . . . Sept. 27 

Adjutor, St Sept. 1 

Adjutor, St., M Dec. 18 

Adjutus, St., M Jan. 16 

Adjutus, St., A Dec. 19 

Ado, St., B., O Dec. 16 

Adria, St., M Dec. 2 

Adrian, St., M Nih. 1 

Adrian, St., M Nih. 5 

Adrian, St., M Mch. 7 

Adrian, St., M Aug. 26 

Adrian III, P Sept. 7 

Adrian, St., M., and 23 
others, commem. of.Sept. 8 

Adrio, St., M May 17 

Adulphus, St., M Sept. 27 

Adventor, St., Sol'r, 

M Nov. 20 

^Edesius, St., M Apr. 8 

^Emilian, St., M Feb. 8 

^Emilian, St., Sol'r, M.Apr. 29 

^milian, St., M July 18 

JErnilian, St., B. M Aug. 8 

^milian, St., B Sept. 11 

^milian, St., C Oct. 11 

^Bmilian, St., Pr Nov. 12 

JEinilian, St., Physi- 
cian, C Dec. 6 

yEmiliana, St., M June 30 



406 



INDEX. 



^milius, St., M May 22 

^Emilius, St., M May 28 

^milius, St., M Oct. 6 

^Etherius, St., B., M..Mch. 4 

^Etherius, St., B June 14 

^therius, St., M June 18 

vKtherius, St., B. and 

G July 27 

Afra, St., M May 24 

Af ra, St., M Aug. 5 

African, St., M Apr. 10 

Agabius, St., B., M...Aug. 4 
Agabus, St., Prophet.. Feb. 13 

Agape, St., M Jan. 25 

Agape, St., V., M Feb. 15 

Agape, St., V., M Apr. 3 

Agapes, St., V. M Dec. 28 

Agapias, St., M Nov. 2 

Agapitus, St., B Men. 24 

Agapitus, St., D., M. . .Aug. 6 

Agapitus, St., M Aug. 18 

Agapitus, St., M Sept. 20 

Agapitus, St., P Sept. 20 

Agapitus St. M Nov. 20 

Agapitus, St., M Men. 24 

Agapius, St., M Apr. 28 

Agapius, St., B., M Apr. 29 

Agapius, St., M Aug. 19 

Agapius, St., M Aug. 21 

Agapius, St., B Sept. 10 

Agapius, St., M Nov. 20 

Agatha, St., V., M Feb. 5 

Agathadorus, St., M...Apr. 13 
Agathangelus, St., M . . Jan. 23 

Agatho, St., P Jan. 10 

Agatho, St., Exorc't, 

M Feb. 14 

Agatho, St., M July 5 

Agatho, St., Sol'r, M..Dec. 7 
Agathoclia, St., Ser't, 

M Sept. 17 

Agathodorus, St.B.,M.Mch. 4 

Agathonica, St., M Apr. 13 

Agathonica, St., V.. M.Aug. 10 
Agathonicus, St., M., 

companions Aug. 22 



Agathopodes, St., D., 

M Apr. 4 

Agathopodes, St., D...Apr. 25 

Agathopus, St., M Dec. 23 

Agericus, St., B Dec. 1 

Agga?us, St., Prophet.. July 4 

Aggoeus, St., M Jan. 4 

Agileus, St., M Oct. 15 

Aglibertus, St., M June 24 

Agnes, St., V., M Jan. 21 

Agues, St., V Apr. 20 

Agoardus, St., M., and 
a multitude of oth- 
ers June 24 

Agricola, St., B Men. 17 

Agricola, St., M Nov. 4 

Agricola, St., M Dec. 3 

Agricola, St., M Dec. 16 

Agrippina, St., V., M..Jun. 23 

Agrippinus, St., B Nov. 9 

Agritius, St., B Jan. 13 

Aguellus, St., A Dec. 14 

Aichard, St., A Sept. 15 

Aidan, St., B Aug. 31 

Aigulphus, St., A., and 

companion monks, M.Sep. 3 
Aithalas, St., Pr., M. . .Apr. 22 

Alban, St., M June 21 

Alban, St., M., and a 

soldier June 22 

Albert, St., C Aug. 7 

Albert, St., B. M Nov. 21 

Albina, St., V., M Dec. 16 

Albinus, St., B Feb. 5 

Albinus, St., B. and C.Mch. 1 

Albinus, St., B Sept. 15 

Aldegundes, St., V Jan. 30 

Aldhelm, St., B May 25 

Alexander, St., B., M..Jan. 11 

Alexander, St., M Jan. 30 

Alexander, St., M Feb. 9 

Alexander, St., M., and 

38 others Feb. 9 

Alexander, St., M Feb. 18 

Alexander, St., B Feb. 26 

Alexander, St., M Feb. 27 



INDEX. 



407 



Alexander, St., M Mch. 10 

Alexander, St., M Mch. 17 

Alexander, St., B., M..Mch. 18 

Alexander, St., M Mch. 24 

Alexander, St., M Mch. 24 

Alexander, St., Soldier, 

M Mch. 27 

Alexander, St., M Mch. 28 

Alexander, St., M., and 

34 others Apr. 24 

Alexander, St., P., M . . May 3 
Alexander, St., Sol'r, M.May 3 

Alexander, St., M May 20 

Alexander, St., M May 29 

Alexander, St., M June 2 

Alexander, St., B June 4 

Alexander, St., B., M.June 6 
Alexander, St., M., and 

companions June 6 

Alexander, St., M July 9 

Alexander, St., M July 10 

Alexander, St., Sol., M.July 21 

Alexander, St., M Aug. 1 

Alexander, St., B., M.Aug. 11 

Alexander, St., M Aug. 26 

Alexander, St., B., M.Aug. 28 

Alexander, St., M Sept. 9 

Alexander, St., B., M.Sept. 21 

Alexander, St., M Sept. 28 

Alexander of Saul, St., 

B Oct. 1.1 

Alexander, St., M Oct. 17 

Alexander, St., B., M., 

and companions Oct. 22 

Alexander, St., M Nov. 9 

Alexander. St., M Nov. 24 

Alexander, St., M Dec. 12 

Alexandra, St., M Mch. 20 

Alexandra. St.. V., M.May 18 
Alexius Falconieri, St., 

C .Feb. 17 

Alexius, St., C July 17 

Alipius, St., B Aug. 15 

All Saints, festival of. Nov. 1 

Almachius, St., M Jan. 1 

Alodia, St., V., M Oct. 22 



Aloysius Gonzaga, St. June 21 

Alphseus, St., M Nov. 17 

Alphius, St. M May 10 

Alphius, St., M May 10 

Alphius, St., M Sept. 28 

Alphonsus, Maria de 

Liguori, St Aug. 2 

Alphonsus, Rodriguez, 

St., O. Oct. 30 

Alpinian, St, Pr June 30 

Amaudus, St., B Feb. 6 

Amandus, St., B. and 

C June. 18 

Amantius, St., M Feb. 10 

Amantius, St., D Mch. 19 

Amantius, St., B. and 

C Apr. S 

Amantius, St., M June 10 

Amantius, St., Pr Sept. 26 

Amantius, St., B Nov. 4 

Amaranthus, St., M...NOV. 7 

Amatius, St., M June 6- 

Amator, St., Pr., M Apr. 30 

Amator, St., B., O May 1 

Amator, St., B ..Nov. 26 

Amatus. St., B. and 

C Sept. 13 

Amatus, St., Pr. and 

A Sept. 13 

Ambicus, St., M Dec. 8 

Ambrose, St., O. P Mch. 20 

Ambrose, St., B. and C.Apr. 4 
Ambrose. St., Cenfh, 

M. Aug. 16 

Ambrose, St., B Oct. 16 

Ambrose, St., A Nov. 2 

Ambrose, St., B. and 

Doctor . Dec. 7 

Amelberga, St., V July 10 

Amideus. St Apr. 18 

Ammia, St Aug. 31 

Ammian, St., M Sept. 4 

Ammon, St., D. M., and 

40 holy virgins Sept. 1 

Ammon. St., M., and 

others Sept. 8 



408 



INDEX. 



Ammon, St., Sol'r., M..Dec. 20 
Aminonaria, St., M...Dec. 12 
Ammonaria, St., M . . . Dec. 12 

Ammonius, St., M Jan. 18 

Ammonius, St., M Feb. 9 

Ammonius, St.,&mdash;Infant.Feb. 12 
Ammonius, St., M . . . . Feb. 14 
Ammonius, St., Lector, 

M Mch. 26 

Ammonius, St., M . . . . Nov. 26 
Amos, St., Prophet, M.Mch. 31 
Ampelius, St., M., and 

companions Feb. 11 

Ampelus, St., M Nov. 20 

Amphian, St., M Apr. 2 

Amphilochius, St., Offi- 
cer, M Mch. 27 

Amphilochius, St., B..Nov. 23 
Amphion, St., B. and 

C June 12 

Ampliatus, St., M Oct. 31 

Anacharius, St., B. and 

C Sept. 26 

Anacletus, St., P., M..July 13 
Ananias, St., Pr., M..Apr. 21 

Ananias, St., M Dec. 1 

Ananias, St.,Youth, M.Dec. 16 

Ananias, St., M Jan. 25 

Anastasia, St., M Apr. 15 

Anastasia, the Elder, 

St., V., M Oct. 28 

Anastasia, St., M., and 

270 other women . . . Dec. 25 

Anastasius, St., M Jan. 9 

Anastasius, St., Monk, 

M., and companions. Jan. 11 
Anastasius, St., Monk, 

M., and companions . Jan. 22 
Anastasius Sinaita, St. 

B Apr. 21 

Anastasius, St., P Apr. 27 

Anastasius, St., M., and 

companions May 11 

Anastasius, St., B May 20 

Anastasius, St., B May 30 

Anastasius, St., Pr., M.Jun. 14 



Anastasius, St., Soldier, 

M June 2<J 

Anastasius (2 of name) 
MM., and many 

others Aug. 13 

Anastasius, St., B. and 

C Aug. 17 

Anastasius, St., Secre- 
tary, M ,. .Aug. 21 

Anastasius, St., M Sept. 7 

Anastasius, St., Pr., M., 

and companions Oct. 11 

Anastasius, St., M....Dec. 5 

Anastasius, St., M Dec. 19 

Anastasius, St., B., M.Dec. 21 

Anathalon, St., B Sept. 21 

Anatolia, St., V., M...Jnly 9 

Anatolius, St., M Mch. 20 

Anatolius, St., B .Tally 8 

Anatolius, St., M Nov. 20 

Andeol, St., Subd'n, 

M May 1 

Andochius, St., Pr., 

M Sept. 24 

Andrew Corsini, St., B.Feb. 4 
Andrew, St., B. and C.Feb. 26 

Andrew, St., M May 15 

Andrew, St., Tribune, 
M., and military 

companions Aug. 19 

Andrew, St., Pr., M..Aug. 29 

Andrew, St., M Sept. 23 

Andrew of Crete, St.. 

Monk, M Oct. 17 

Andrew Avellini, St., 

Regular Clerk Nov. 10 

Andrew, St., Monk, 

M Nov. 28 

Andrew, St., Apostle, 

M., birthday of Nov. 30 

Andronicus, St Oct. 9 

Andronicus, St., M Oct. 11 

Anectus, St., M Mch. 10 

Anectus, St., M June 27 

Anempodistus, St., M.Nov. 2 



INDEX. 



409 



Anesius, St., M Mch. 31 

Angela Merici, St., 

V., May 31 

Angelus, St., Pr., M...May 5 

Angelus, St., M Oct. 13 

Anian, St., B Apr. 25 

Anian, St., D., M Nov. 10 

Anian, St., B Nov. 17 

Anicetus, St., P., M...Apr. 17 
Anicetus, St., Count, M., 

and many others. . .Aug. 12 
Ann, St., mother of 

Mary, mother of 

'God July 26 

Anna, St., Prophetess. Sept. 1 

Annon, St., B Dec. 4 

Annunciation of the 

B. V. M Mch. 25 

Ansanus, St., M Dec. 1 

Ansbert, St., B Feb. 9 

Anscharius, St., B Feb. 3 

Anslem, St., B Apr. 21 

Ansovinus, St., B. and 

C Mch. 13 

Anterus, St., P., M Jan. 3 

Anthelmus, St., B June 20 

Anthes, St., M Aug. 28 

Anthia, St., M Apr. 18 

Anthimus, St., B., M., 

and others Apr. 27 

Anthimus, St., Pr., M.May 11 

Anthimus, St., M Sept. 27 

Antholian, St., M Feb. 6 

Anthony, St., Pr., M . . Jan. 9 
Anthony, St., Monk... Jan. 17 

Anthony, St., A Jan. 17 

Anthony, St., B Feb. 12 

Anthony, St., M Feb. 14 

Anthony, St., A Feb. 14 

Anthony, St., C June 13 

Anthony, Mary C July 5 

Anthony, St., M Sept. 23 

Anthony, St., M Nov. 7 

Anthony, St., M Dec. 15 

Anthony, St., Monk... Dec. 28 
Anthusa, St., V., M...July 27 



Anthusa, St., M Aug. 22 

Anthusa the Younger, 

St., M Aug. 27 

Antidius, St., B., M...June 25 

Antigonus, St., M Feb. 27 

Antinogenes, St., M . . . July 24 
Antiochus, St., Tribune, 

M May 21 

Antiochus, St., Physi- 
cian, M July 15 

Antiochus, St., B Oct. 15 

Antiochus, St., M Dec. 13 

Antipas, St., M Apr. 11 

Antonia, St., V., M Apr. 29 

Antonia, St., M May 4 

Antonia, St., M Mch. 1 

Antonina, St., V., M..May 3 

Antonia, St., M .-June 12 

Antoninus, St., M Apr. 20 

Antoninus, St., M Apr. 26 

Antoninus, St., C. and 

Arch May 10 

Antoninus, St., M., and 

others July 6 

Antoninus, St., M July 29 

Antoninus, St., M Aug. 2*2 

Antoninus, St., M Sept. 2 

Antoninus, St.,Boy,M.Sept. 3 
Antoninus, St., Soldier, 

M Sept. 30 

Antoninus, St., B. and 

C Oct. 31 

Antoninus, St., M . . . . Nov. 13 

Anysia, St., M Dec. 30 

Anysius, St., B Dec. 30 

Apelles, St Apr. 22 

Apellius, St., M Sept. 10 

Aper, St., B Sept. 15 

Aphraates, St., An- 
choret Apr. 7 

Aphrodisius, St., M..Mch. 14 
Aphrodisius, St., M.;.Apr. 28 
Aphrodisius, St., Pr., 

M., and 30 others . . . Apr. 30 

Aphtonins, St., M Nov. 2 

Apodemius, St., M Apr. 16 



410 



INDEX. 



Apollinaris, St., V Jan. 5 

Apollinaris, St., B Jan. 8 

Apollinaris, St., M . . . June 21 
Apollinaris, St., B., M.July 23 

Apollinaris, St., M Aug. 23 

Apollinaris, St., B Oct. 5 

Apollo, St., M Apr. 21 

Apollonia, St., V., M..Feb. 9 

Apollonius, St., M Feb. 14 

Apollonius, St., D., M.Mch. 8 

Apollonius, St., B Mch. 19 

Apollonius, St., Pr., M., 

and 5 others Apr. 10 

Apollonius, St., Sena- 
tor, M Apr. 18 

Apollonius, St., M June 5 

Apollonius, St., B. and 

C July 7 

Apollonius, St., M July 10 

Apollonius. St., M July 23 

Apphias, St., M Nov. 22 

Appian, St., M Dec. 30 

Apronian, St., Notary, 

M Feb. 2 

Apuleius, St., M Oct. 7 

Aquila, St., M Jan. 23 

Aquila, St., M Mch. 23 

Aquila, St., M May 20 

Aquila, St July 8 

Aquila, St., M. Aug. 1 

Aqiiilina, St., V., M...June 13 

Aquiliiia, St., M July 24 

Aquilinus, St., M Jan. 4 

Aquilinus, St., Pr., M.Jan. 29 

Aquilinus, St., M Feb. 4 

Aquilinus, St., M May 15 

Aquilinus, St., M May 17 

Aquilinus, St.,B. and C.Oct. 19 

Arabia, St., M Mch. 13 

Arator, St., Pr., M Apr. 21 

Arbogastus, St., B . . . . July 21 

Arcadius, St., M Jan. 12 

Arcadius, St., B., M..Mch. 4 

Arcadins, St., M Nov. 13 

Archelaus, St., M Mch. 4 

Archelaus. St., D., M..Aug. 23 



Archelaus, St., B Dec. 26 

Archipus, St., Mch. 20 

Arcontius, St., M Sept. 5 

Ardalion, St., Comedian, 

M Apr. 14 

Aresius, St., M., and 

others June 10 

Aretas, St., M., and 504 

others Oct. 1 

Aretas, St., M., and 

340 companions Oct. 24 

Aretius, St., M June 4 

Argeus, St., M Jan. 2 

Argymirus, St., Monk, 

M June 28 

Ariadna, St., M Sept. 17 

Arian, St., Governor, 

M., and others Mch. 8 

Aristaeus, St., B., M..Sept. 3 
Aristarchus, St., B. 

M Aug. 4 

Aristides, St Aug. 31 

Aristion, St Feb. 22 

Aristobulus, St., M...Mch. 15 

Ariston, St., M July 2 

Aristonicus, St., M...Apr. 19 
Arinentarius, St., B. 

and O. Jan. 30 

Armogastes, St., Count, 

C Mch. 29 

Arnulf, St., B July 18 

Arnulf, St., B. and C. .Aug. 15 

Arsacius, St, C Aug. 16 

Arsenius, St., D July 19 

Arsenius, St., M Dec. 14 

Artemius, St., Imperial 

Officer, M Oct. 20 

Artemius, St., M June 6 

Artemon, St., Pr., M..Oct. 8 

Asaph, St., B May 1 

Asclas, St., M Jan. 23 

Asclepiades, St., B., M.Oct. 18 
Asclepiodotns. St., M.Sept. 15 

Asella, St., V Dec. 6 

Aspren, St., B Aug. 3 



INDEX. 



411 



Assumption of the B. 

V. Mary Aug. 15 

Asteria, St., V., M...Aug. 10 
Asterius, S/t, Senator, 

M Men. 3 

Asterius, St., M May 20 

Asterius, St.,B. and C.June 10 

Asterius, St., M Aug. 23 

Asterius, St., Pr., M..Oct. 21 

Asyncritus, St Apr. 8 

Athanasia, St., Widow. Aug. 14 

Athansia, St Oct. 9 

Athanasius, St., Notary, 

M Jan. 3 

Athanasius, St., B May 2 

Athanasius, St., D., M.July 5 

Athanasius, St., B July 15 

Athanasius, St., B., M.Aug. 22 
Athenodorus, St., B.,M.Oct. 18 
Athenodorus, St., M. . . Nov. 11 
Athenogenes, St, M..Jan. 18 
Athenogenes, St., M., and 

10 disciples July 16 

Attalas, St., A Men. 10 

Attalus, St., M June 2 

Attains, St., M Dec. 31 

Attho, St May 22 

Atticus, St Nov. 6 

Attilanus, St., B Oct. 5 

Attius, St., M Aug. 1 

Aubertus, St.,B. and C.Dec. 13 

Auctus, St., M Nov. 7 

Audactus, St., Pr., M. .Oct. 24 
Audas, St., B., M. and 

7 Priests, 9 Deacons. 

and 7 Virgins May 16 

Audax, St., M July 9 

Audifax, St., M Jan. 19 

Audry, St., V., Queen. June 23 
Augulus, St., B., M...Feb. 7 
Augurius, St, D., M..Jan. 21 
Angustalus, St., B. and 

C Sept. 7 

Augustine, St, M May 7 

Augustine, St., B. and 



Doctor Aug. 28 

Augustus, St., M May 7 

Augustus, St Sept. 1 

Augustus, St., Pr. and 

C Oct. 7 

Aurea, St, V., M July 19 

Aurea St., V., M Aug. 24 

Aurea, St., V Oct. 4 

Aurelia, St, V Sept. 25 

Aurelia, St., V Oct. 15 

Aurelia, St, M Dec. 2 

Aurelian, St., B June 16 

Aurelius, St., M July 27 

Aurelius, St., M Oct. 20 

Aurelius, St, B., M...Nov. 12 
Aureus, St., M., and 

others June 16 

Austreberta, St, V Feb. 10 

Austregisil, St., B. and 

C May 20 

Austremonius, St., B..Nov. 1 
Austriclinian, St, Pr.June 30 
Autonomus, St, B., M.Sept 12 

Auxanus, St., B Sept. 3 

Auxentius, St., A Feb. 14 

Auxentius, St, M Dec. 13 

Auxentius, St., B Dec. 18 

Auxibius, St., B Feb. 19 

Auxilius, St., M Nov. 27 

Aventine, St, C Feb. 4 

Avitus, St, M Jan. 27 

Avitus, St, B. and C. .Feb. 5 
Avitus. St., Pr. and C.June 17 
Azadan, St., D., M., and 

other clerics Apr. 22 

Azades, St., Eunuch, 

M Apr. 22 

Azarias, St., Youth, M.Dec. 16 
Azas, St., M., and 150 

military companions.Nov. 19 



Babylas, St., B., M. . . .Jan. 24 

Bacchus, St., M Oct. 7 

Bajulus, St., M Dec. 20 



412 



INDEX. 



Balbina, St., V Mch. 3.1 

Baldomer, St Feb. 27 

Baracblsius, St., M...Mch. 29 
Barbara, St., V. M.... Dec. 4 
Barbatian, St., Fr. and 

C Dec. 31 

Barbatus, St., B Feb. 19 

Barbea, St., M Jan. 29 

Bardomian, St., M., and 

others Sept 25 

Barlaam, St., M Nov. 19 

Barlaam, St Nov. 27 

Barnabas, St., Apostle, 

M June 11 

Barontius, St., C Mch. 25 

Barsabas, St., M Dec. 11 

Barsanuphius, St., An- 
choret Apr. 11 

Barsen, St., B Jan. 30 

Barsimaeus, St., B., M.Jan. 30 
Bartholomew, St., 

Apostle, M Aug. 24 

Bartholomew, St., A.. Nov. 11 

Barula, St., M Nov. 18 

Basil, St., C Feb. 27 

Basil, St., B., M Mch. 4 

Basil, St., B Mch. 6 

Basil, St., Pr., M Mch. 22 

Basil, St May 30 

Basil, St., B., of June 14 

Basil, St., Monk, M...NOV. 28 

Basileus, St., M Mch. 2 

Basileus, St., B., M...Apr. 26 

Basileus, St., M May 23 

Basileus, St., B., M...Nov. 27 

Basilian, St., M Dec. 18 

Basilica of Our Saviour, 

dedication of Nov. 9 

Basilides, St., M., and 

others June 10 

Basilides, St., Soldier, 

M June 12 

Basilides, St., M June 30 

Basilides, St., M Dec. 23 

Basiliscus, St., M Mch. 3 

Basiliscus, St., M May 22 



Basilissa, St., V Jan. 9 

Basilissa, St., M Mch. 22 

Basilissa, St., M Apr. 15 

Basilissa, St., V., M..Sept. 3 

Basilla, St., M May 17 

Basilla, St., V., M....May 20 

Basilla, St Aug. 29 

Basolus, St., O Nov. 26 

Bassa, St., V., M Aug. 10 

Bassa, St., M Aug. 21 

Bassian, St., B., C Jan. 19 

Bassian, St., Lector, M.Feb. 14 

Bassian, St., M Dec. 9 

Bassus, St., M Feb. 14 

Bassus, St., M May 11 

Bassus, St., M., and 

others Nov. 20 

Basstus, St., B., M Dec. 5 

Bathildis, St., Queen. Jan. 26 

Baudelius, St., M May 20 

Bavo, St., C Oct. 1 

Beanus, St., B Dec. 16 

Beata, St Mch. 8 

Beatrix, St., M July 29 

Beatus, St., C May 9 

Bede, Venerable, St. 

Pr May 27 

Begga, St., Widow.. .Dec. 17 
Bellinus, St., B., M...Nov. 26 
Benedict, St., A., C...Jan. 12 

Benedict, St., B Mch. 11 

Benedict, St., A Mch. 21 

Benedict, St., Monk.. Mch. 23 
Benedict of St. Phila- 

delphus, St., C Apr. 3 

Benedict, Jos. Labre, St., 

C Apr. 16 

Benedict, St., P. and C.May 7 
Benedict, XI, St., P.. July 7 

Benedict, St., C Oct. 23 

Benedict, St., Hermit, 

M Nov. 12 

Benedicta, St., M Jan. 4 

Benedicta, St., V May 6 

Benedicta, St., V June 29 

Benedicta, St., V., M. .Oct. 8 



INDEX. 



413 



Benignus, St., M Feb. 

Benignus, St., M Apr. 

Benignus, St., B., M . . June 

Benignus, St., Pr., M..Nov. 

Benignus, St., B Nov. 

Benildes, St., M June 

Benjamin, St., D., M . . Mch. 

Benno, St., B June 

Benvenutus, St., B . . . Mch. 

Berard, St., M Jan. 

Bercharius, St., A., M.Oct. 

Bernard, St.,B. and C.Mch. 

Bernard of Menthon, 
St., C June 

Bernard, St., A., Doc- 
tor of the Church.. Aug. 

Bernard Ptolemy, St., 
A Aug. 

Bernard, St., C Oct. 

Bernard, St., B. and 
Card Dec. 

Bernardine of Siena, 
St May 

Bernward, St., B. and 
C Oct. 

Beronicus, St., M., and 
others Oct. 

Bertin, St., A Sept. 

Besas, St., Soldier, M.Feb. 

Bessarion. St., Ancht.Jime 

Bianor, St., M July 

Bibiana, St., V Dec. 

Biblis, St., M June 

Bicor, St., B., M Apr. 

Birillus, St., B Mch. 

Ririnus, St., B Dec. 

Balnda, St., M May 

Blandina. St., M June 

Blasius, St., B., M...Feb. 

Blasius, St., M Nov. 

Blood, Mrt. Pricions. .July 

Bona, St.. V Apr. 

Bonajunota, St., C Aug. 

Bonaventure, St., Card, 
and B., C. and Doc- 
tor July 



13 Bonfilius, St., C Jan. 1 

3 Boniface, St., M May 14 

28 Boniface, St., B May 14 

1 Boniface IV, St., P...May 25 

20 Boniface, St., B., M..June 5 

15 Boniface, St., M June 19 

31 Boniface, St., D.. M..Aug. 17 

.10 i Boniface, St Aug. 30 

22 I Boniface, St.. P. and C.Oct. 25 
10 Boniface, St., C .Dec. 6 

16 Boniface, St., M Dec. 29 

12 Bonitus, St., B. and C.Jan. 15 

Bononius, St., A Aug. 30 

15 1 Bonosa, St., M Joily 15 

Bonosus, St., M Aug. 21 

20 Bonus, St., P., M. and 

others Aug. 1 

21 ; Braulio, St., B. and C.Mch. 20 

14 Brendan, St., A May 10 

Bretannion, St., B Jan. 25 

Brice, St., B Nov. 13 

Bridget, St., V Feb. 1 

20 Bridget, St., Widow... Oct. 8 
Brixius, St., B July 9 

26 Bruno, St., B. and C..May 17 
Bruno, St., B. and C..July 18 

19 Bruno, St., C Oct. 6 

Bruno, St., B. and M..Oct. 15 

Burchard, St., B Oct. 14 

Burgundofora, St., Ab- 
bess, V Apr. 3 

C. 

Csecilian, St., M Apr. 16 

CaBciliois, St., B May 15 

Caicilius, St., Pr June 3 

Ca3lian, St., M Dec. 15 

Cserealis, St., M Feb. 28 

29 Cserealis, St., M June 10 

1 Ca?realis, St., Soldier. 

24 1 M Sept. 14 

31 1 Caesarius, St Feb. 25 

Csesarius, St., M Apr. 20 

I Ca?sarius, St., B Aug. 27 

14,(>sarius. St.. D.. ..Nov. 1 



414 



INDEX. 



Csesarius, St., M., and 

others Nov. 1 

Csesarius, St., M Nov. 3 

Csesarius, St., M Dec. 28 

Caesidius, St., Pr., M., 

and companions ...Aug. 31 

Caius, St., M Jan. 4 

Caius, St., M Feb. 28 

Caius, St., M., and 27 

others Mch. 4 

Caius, St., M Mch. 10 

Caius, St., M Apr. 16 

Caius, St., M , Apr. 19 

Caius, St. P., M Apr. 22 

Caius, St. Pr June 30 

Caius, St. M Aug. 28 

Caius, St B Sept. 27 

Caius, St. M Oct. 3 

Caius, St Oct. 4 

Caius, St., M., and com- 
panions Oct. 4 

Caius, St., Soldier, M.Oct. 21 

Caius, St., M Nov. 20 

Cajetan of Tiene. St.,C.Aug. 7 

Calanious, St., M Dec. 17 

Calepodius, St., Pr. and 

M ...May 10 

Calimerius, St., B., M.July 31 

Callinica, St., M Mch. 22 

Callinicus, St., M Jan. 28 

Callinicus, St., M July 29 

Calliopa, St., M June 8 

Calliopius, St.. M Apr. 7 

Callista, St., M Sept. 2 

Callistratus, St., M., and 

49 other soldiers . . . Sept, 26 
Callistus, St., M., and 

others Apr. 16 

Callistus, St., M Apr. 25 

Callistus, St., B. M...Aug. 14 

Callistus, St., P., M...0ct. 14 

Callistus, St. M Dec. 29 

Calocerus, St., B. and 

C Feb. 11 

Calocerus, St., M. . . . .Apr. 18 

Calocerus, St., M May 19 



Calogerus, St., Hermit. June 18 
Camillus de Lellis, St., 

C July 18 

Candida, St., M June 6 

Candida, St., V., M...Aug. 29 

Candida, St Sept. 4 

Candida, the Younger, 

St Sept. 4 

Candida, St., V., M..Sept. 20 

Candida, St., M Dec. 1 

Candidus, St., M Feb. 2 

Candidus, St., Sol'r, M.Mch. 9 
Candidus, St., M., and 

others Mch. 11 

Candidus, St., M Sept. 22 

Candidus, St., M Oct. 3 

Candidas, St., M Dec. 15 

Canion, St Sept. 1 

Canon. St., M., and son. May 29 

Cantian, St., May 31 

Cantianilla. St., M May 31 

Cantidian, St., M Aug. 5 

Cantidius, St., M Aug. 5 

Cantius, St., M May 31 

Canute, St., King, M..Jan. 7 

Capito, St, B. M Mch. 4 

Capito. St., M July 24 

Capitolina, St., M Oct. 27 

Caprasius, St., A June 1 

Caprasius, St., M Oct. 20 

Caralippus, St., M Apr. 28 

Caraunas, St., M May 28 

Carponius, St., M Oct. 14 

Carpophorus, St., M..Aug. 7 
Carpophorus, St., Pr.. 

M Dec. 10 

Carpois, St., B., M. and 

others Apr. 13 

Carpus, St Oct. 13 

Carterius, St., M., and 

companions Nov. 2 

Casdoa, St., M Sept. 29 

Casimir, St Mch. 4 

Cassia, St.. M July 20 

Cassian, St., M., and 

others Mch. 26 



INDEX. 



415 



Cassian, St., B Aug. 5 

Cassian, St., M Aug. 13 

Cassian, St., B., M...Aug. 13 

Cassian, St., M Dec. 1 

Cassian, St., M Dec. 3 

Cassius, St., M., and 

companions May 15 

Cassius, St., B June 29 

Cassius, St., M Aug. 7 

Cassius, St., M., and 

many others Oct. 10 

Castor, St., M Men. 28 

Castor, St., M Apr. 27 

Castor, St., M Dec. 28 

Castorius, St., M July 7 

Castorius, St., M Nov. 8 

Castrensis, St., B Feb. 11 

Castrensis, St Sept. 1 

Castritian, St., B Dec. 1 

Castoilus, St., M Jan. 12 

Castulus, St., M Feb. 15 

Castulus, St., M Mch. 26 

Castulus, St., M Nov. 30 

Castus, St., M May 22 

Castus, St., B., M July 1 

Castus, St., M Sept. 4 

Castus, St., M Oct. 6 

Cataldus, St., B Oct. 6 

Cataldus, St., B May 10 

Catherine de Ricci, St., 

V Feb. 13 

Catherine, St., V Mch. 9 

Catherine, St., V Mch. 22 

Catherine, St., Widow.Mch. 22 
Catherine of Siena, St., 

V Apr. 30 

Catherine, St., V., M..Nov. 25 
Catulinus, St., D., M July 15 

Catus, St., M Jan. 19 

Cecilia, St., V., M Nov. 22 

Celerina, St., M Feb. 3 

Celerinus, St., D., M. .Feb. 3 

Celestin, St, P Apr. 6 

Celestin V, St., P May 19 

Celestine, St., M TMay 2 

Celsus, St., Boy, M Jan. 9 



Celsus, St., B Apr. 6 

Celsus, St., Boy, M...July 28 

Celsus, St., M ..Nov. 21 

Censurius, St., B....June 10 

Centolla, St., M .Aug. 13 

Cerbonius, St., B Oct. 10 

Cerbonius, St., B. and 

C Oct. 10 

Chad, St., B Mch. 2 

Chseremon, St.. M Oct. 4 

Chair of St. Peter, 

Apostle at Rome Jan. 18 

Chaeremon, St., M Oct. 4 

Chaeremon, St., B., M.. 

and others Dec. 22 

Chair of St. Peter, 

Apostle at Antioch . . Feb. 22 

Charisius, St., M. . Apr. 16 

Charitina, St., V., M..Oct. 5 

Chariton, St., M Sept. 3 

Charity, St., V.. M...Aug. 1 
Charles Borromeo, St., 

Card, and B Nov. 4 

Cheledonius, St., M..Mch. 3 

Chelidonia, St., V Oct. 15 

Chionia. St., V., M Apr. 3 

Christeta, St.. M Oct. 27 

Christiana, St., Hand- 
maid Dec. 15 

Christina, St., V., M..Mch. 13 
Christina, St., V.. M..July 24 
Christinus, St., Hermit 

M .Nov. 12 

Christopher, St., M...July 25 
Christopher, St.. Monk, 

M Aug. 20 

Chromatius, St., B. and 

C Dec. 2 

Chronidas, St., Notary. 

M Mch. 27 

Chryanthus, St., M Oct. 24 

Chrysogonus, St.. M..Nov. 24 
Chrysophoinis, St., M.Apr. 20 
Chrysotelus, St., Pr., 

M Apr. 22 

Cilinia, St Oct. 21 



416 



1 NDEX. 



Cindeus, St., Pr., M...July 11 
Circumcision of our 

Lord Jan. 1 

Cisellus, St., M Aug. 21 

Clare, St., V Aug. 12 

Clare, St., V., Nun... Aug. 18 
Clarence, St., B. and C.Apr. 26 
Clarus, St., Pr., M...Nov. 4 

Clarus, St., Pr Nov. 8 

Classicus, St., M Feb. 18 

Clateus, St., B., M June 4 

Claude, St., B June 6 

Claudia, St., M Mch. 20 

Claudia, St., V., M May 18 

Claudian, St., M Feb. 25 

Claudian, St., M Feb. 26 

Claudius, St., M Feb. 18 

Claudius, St., M Apr. 26 

Claudius, St., Boy, M.June 3 

Claudius, St., M July 7 

Claudius, St., M Aug. 23 

Claudius, St., M., and 

companions July 21 

Claudius, St., M Oct. 30 

Claudius, St., M Nov. 8 

Claudius, St., Tribune 

M. and others Dec. 3 

Claudius, St., M Dec. 3 

Clement, St., B., M...Jan. 23 
Clement, Mary Hofbauer 

F. C Mch. 15 

Clement, St., M Sept. 10 

Clement, St., M Nov. 21 

Clement, St., P., M...NOV. 23 
Clementinus, St., M...NOV. 14 

Cleomenes, St., M Dec. 23 

Cleonious, St.,Sol'r, M.Mch. 3 

Cleophas, St.. M Sept. 25 

Clerus, St., D., M Jan. 7 

Cletus. St., P., M Apr. 26 

Clicerius, St., B. and 

C Sept. 20 

Clodulphns, St., B June 8 

Clotilda, St.. Queen.. June 3 
Cloud, St., Pr. and C.Sept. 7 
Cointha, St., M Feb. 8 



Colotte, St., V Mch. 6 

Codratus, St., M Mch. 10 

Colman, St., Pr., M...July 8 

Colman, St., M Oct. 13 

Columba, St., Pr. and 

C June 9 

Columba, St., V., M..Sept. 17 
Columba, St., V., M...Dec. 31 

Cokimban, St., A Nov. 21 

Concessa, St., M Apr. 8 

Concessus, St., M Apr. 9 

Concordia, St., M Aug. 13 

Concordius, St., Pr., M.Jan. 1 
Concordius, St., M...Sept. 2 

Concordius, St., M Dec. 16 

Conon, St., M Feb. 26 

Conon, St., M Mch. 6 

Conrad, St., B Nov. 26 

Consortia, St., V June 22 

Constantia, St., M...Sept. 19 
Constantine, St., C...Mch. 11 
Constantine, St., B. and 

C Apr. 12 

Constantine, St., M . . . July 27 
Constantius, St., B., M.Jan. 29 
Constantius, St., M...Aug. 26 

Constantius, St., B Sept. 1 

Constantius, St., Man- 

sionary Sept. 23 

Constantius, St., C.-.Nov. 30 
Constantius, St., M...Dec. 12 

Corpes, St., M July 9 

Corbinian, St., B Sept. 8 

Cordula, St., V., M....Oct. 22 
Corebus, St., Prefect. 

M Apr. 18 

Cornelia, St., M Mch. 31 

Cornelius, St., Centu- 
rion, B Feb. 2 

Cornelius, St., P., M.Sept. 16 

Cornelius, St., M Dec. 31 

Corona, St., M May 14 

Cosmas, St., M Sept. 27 

Cottidus, St., D., M., 

and companions Sept. 6 

Craton, St., M Feb. 15 



INDEX. 



417 



Crementius, St., M... Apr. 16 

Crescens, St., M Mch. 10 

Crescens, St., M Apr. 15 

Crescens, St., M May 28 

Crescens, St., B., M..June 27 

Crescens, St., M July 18 

Crescens, St., M Oct. 1 

Grescens, St., B Nov. 28 

Crescens, St., B Dec. 29 

Crescent, St., C Apr. 19 

Crescentia, St., M June 15 

Crescentian, St., M . . . May 31 
Crescentian, St., Soldier, 

M June 1 

Crescentian, St., M...July 2 
Crescentian, St., M...Aug. 12 
Crescentian, St., M...Sept. 14 
Crescentian, St., M...Nov. 24 
Crescentian, St., B...Nov. 28 
Crescentiana, St., M..May 5 
Crescentiois, St., Boy, 

M Sept. 14 

Crescentius, St., M...Dec. 12 
Crescentius, St., M...Dec. 29 

Cresconius, St., B Nov. 28 

Crispin, St., B. and C.Jan. 7 

Crispin, St., M Oct. 25 

Crispina, St., M Dec. 5 

Crispinian, St., M Oct. 25 

Crispinus, St., B., M..Nov. 19 

Crispinus, St., M Dec. 3 

Crispinus, St., M Dec. 5 

Crispulus, St., M May 30 

Crispulus, St., M June 10 

Crispus, St., M Aug. 18 

Crispus, St Oct. 4 

Cross, Holy, Finding 

of May 3 

Cross, Holy, Exaltation 

of Sept. 4 

Crotates, St., M Apr. 21 

Ctesiphon, St., B May 15 

Oucuphas, St., M July 25 

Culmatius, St., D., M.June 19 
Cunegundes, St., Em- 

, Mch. 3 



Cunibert, St., B Nov. 12 

Curcodomus, St., D...May 4 
Curonotus, St., B., M.Sept. 12 

Cuthbert, St., B Mch. 20 

Cutias, St., M Feb. 18 

Cyprian, St., M Mch. 10 

Cyprian, St., M July 11 

Cyprian, St., B., M...Sept. 16 

Cyprian, St., M Sept. 26 

Cyprian, St., B., M...Oct. 12 

Cyprian, St., A Dec. 9 

Cyra, St Aug. 3 

Cyrenia, St., M Nov. 1 

Cyria, St., M June 5 

Cyriaca, St., M Mch. 20 

Cyriaca, St., V., M...May 19 
Cyriaca, St., Widow, 

M Aug. 21 

Cyriacus, St., M., and 

companions Jan. 31 

Cyriacus, St., M Feb. 8 

Cyriacus, St., M. and 10 

others Apr. 7 

Cyriacus, St., M May 2 

Cyriacus, St., B., M...May 4 

Cyriacus, St., M June 5 

Cyriacus, St., M June 18 

Cyriacus, St., M June 20 

Cyriaous, St., M June 21 

Cyriacus, St. Soldier, 

M June 24 

Cyriacus, St., M July 15 

Cyriacus, St., D., M., 

and others Aug. 8 

Cyriacus, St., M., and 

companions Dec. 19 

Cyril, St., B Feb. 9 

Cyril St., M Mch. 4 

Cyril, St., B Mch. 8 

Cyril, St., B Mch. 9 

Cyril, St., B Mch. 18 

Cyril, St., M Mch. 20 

Cyril, St., D., M Mch. 29 

Cyril and Methodius, 

Sts., B., C July 5 

Cyril, St., B., M July 9 



27 



418 



INDEX. 



Cyril, St., B July 22 

Cyril, St., M Aug. 1 

Cyril, St., M Oct. 2 

Cyril, St., M Oct. 28 

Cyrilla, St., M July 5 

Cyrilla, St., V., M....Oct 28 

Cyrinus, St., M Jan. 3 

Cyrinus, St., M Apr. 26 

Cyrimus, St., M May 10 

Cyrinus, St., Soldier, 

M June 12 

Cyrion,St, Pr., M Feb. 14 

Cyrion, St., Sol'r, M..Mch. 9 

Cyrus, St., M Jan. 31 

Cyrus, St., B July 14 

Cythinus, St., M July 17 

D. 

Dacian, St., M June 4 

Dacius, St., M Nov. 1 

Dadas, St., M Apr. 13 

Dadas, St., M Sept. 29 

Dafrosa, St., M Jan. 4 

Dalmatius, St., B., M. .Dec. 5 
Damasus, St., P., C...Dec. 11 
Damian, St., Sol'r, M.Feb. 12 

Damian, St., M Sept. 27 

Daniel, St., M Jan. 3 

Daniel, St., M Feb. 16 

Daniel, St., M July 10 

Daniel, St., Prophet. .July 21 

Daniel, St., M Oct. 13 

Daniel the Stylite, St. Dec. 11 

Daria, St., M Oct. 25 

Darius, St., M Dec. 19 

Dasius, St., Soldier, M., 

and others Oct. 21 

Dasiois, St., B Nov. 20 

Dathus, St., B. and C.July 3 
Datius, St., B. and C.Jan. 14 
Datius, St., M., and 

companions Jan. 27 

Dativa, St., C Dec. 6 

Dativus, St., M., and 

others . . . Jan. 27 



Dativus, St., M Feb. 11 

Dativus, St., M Sept. 10 

David, St., Hermit ... June 26 
David, St., King and 

Prophet Dec. 29 

Davinus, St., C June 3 

Decorosus, St., B. and 

C Feb. 15 

Deicola, St., A Jan. 18 

Delphinus, St., B Dec. 24 

Demetria, St., V., M..June 21 

Demetrius, St., M Aoig. 14 

Demetrius, St., M., and 

companions Apr. 9 

Demetrius, St., Procon- 
sul, M Oct. 8 

Demetrius, St., B., M., 

and others Nov. 10 

Demetrius, St., M Nov. 21 

Demetkis, St., M Nov. 29 

Demetrius, St., M Dec. 22 

Democritus, St., M... July 31 

Denis, St., M Feb. 8 

Denis, St., M Feb. 14 

Denis, St., M Mch. 10 

Denis, St., M Mch. 24 

Denis, St., M Mch. 24 

Denis, St Apr. 8 

Denis, St., M Apr. 19 

Denis, St., B., C May 8 

Deuis, St., M May 12 

Denis, St., B. M May 25 

Denis, St., Boy, M June 3 

Denis, St., Holy Sleep- 
er, M July 27 

Denis, St., M July 31 

Denis, St., M Sept. 20 

Denis, St., M., and 

others Oct. 3 

Denis the Areopagite, 

St., B., M Oct. 9 

Denis, St., B Nov. 17 

Denis, St., M Nov. 20 

Denis, St., P ...Dec. 26 

Deogratian, St., B Mch. 22 



INDEX. 



419 



Derphuta, St., M., and 

her sister Mch. 20 

Desiderius, St., B., M.Feb. 11 

Desiderkis, St., C Mch. 25 

Desiderius, St., B., M.May 23 
Desiderius, St., B., B.May 23 
Desiderius, St., Lector, 

M Sept. 19 

Deusdedit, St., G Aug. 10 

Deusdedit, St., A., M..Oct. 9 

Deusdedit, St., P Nov. 8 

Deusdedit, St., B Dec. 10 

Didacus, St. C Nov. 13 

Didimtis, St., M Sept. 11 

Didius, St., M Nov. 26 

Didymus, St., M Apr. 28 

Digna, St., V., M June 14 

Digna, St., V Aug. 11 

Digna, St., Maid-ser- 
vant, M Aug. 12 

Digna, St., V., M Sept. 22 

Diodes, St., M . . .May 24 

Diocletras, St., M May 11 

Diodorus, St., M Feb. 26 

Diodorus, St., M May 3 

Diodorus, St., M Sept. 11 

Diodorus, St., Pr., M..Dec. 1 

Diogenes, St., M Apr. 6 

Diomedes, St., Physi- 
cian, M Aug. 16 

Diomedes, St., M Sept. 2 

Diomedes, St., M Sept. 11 

Dion, St., M July 6 

Dionysia, St., M May 15 

Dionysia, St., C., and 

others Dec. 6 

Dionysia. St., M Dec. 12 

Dioscorides, St., M... May 10 
Dioscorides, St., M... May 28 

Dioscorus, St., M Feb. 25 

Dioscorus, St., Lectoir, 

M May 18 

Dioscorus, St., Boy, M.Dec. 14 

Doda, St., V Apr. 24 

Dolors, seven of,B.V.M.Sep. 15 



Dometius, St., Monk, 

M Aug. 7 

Dominator, St., B Nov. 5 

Dominic, St., A Jan. 22 

Dominic, St., C May 12 

Dominic, St., C., O. P., 

feast of Aug. 4 

Dominic Loricatus, St. Oct. 14 
Dominic, St., B., C...Dec. 20 
Dominic de Sylos, St., 

A Dec. 20 

Dominic, St., M Dec. 29 

Dominica, St., V., M..July 6 

Domitian, St., A July 1 

Domitian, St., M A>ug. 1 

Domitian, St., D., C..Aug. 9 
Domitian, St., D., M..Dec. 28 

Domitius, St., M Mch. 23 

Domitius, St., M July 5 

Domitius, St., Pr Oct. 23 

Domna, St., V., M Dec. 28 

Domnina, St., V., M..Apr. 14 

Domnina, St., M Oct. 12 

Domninus, St., M Mch. 21 

Domninus, St., M., and 

companions Mch. 30 

Domninus, St., M Oct. 1 

Domninus, St., M Oct. 9 

Domninus, St., M., and 

companions Nov. 5 

Domnio, St., M July 16 

Domnion, St., B., M., 

and 8 others Apr. 11 

Domnion, St., Pr Dec. 28 

Domnolus, St., B May 16 

Domnus, St., M Oct. 13 

Domnus, St., B., C Nov. 3 

Donata, St., M July 17 

Donata, St., M., and 

companions Dec. 31 

Donatian, St., M May 24 

Donatian, St., B A<ug. 7 

Donatian, St., B., M . . Sept. 6 

Donatian, St., B Oct. 14 

Donatilla, St., V., M. . July 30 
Donatus, St., M Jan. 25 



420 



INDEX. 



Donatus, St., M Feb. 4 

Donatus, St., M Feb. 9 

Donatus, St., M., and 

others Feb. 17 

Donatus, St., M., and 

companions Feb. 25 

Donatus, St., M Men. 1 

Donatus, St., M Apr. 7 

Donatus, St., B Apr. 30 

Donatus, St., M May 21 

Donatus, St., B., M. . . .Aug. 7 
Donatus, St., Pr., C..Aug. 19 

Donatus, St., M Amg. 23 

Donatus, St., M Sept. 5 

Donatus, St., Monk, M., 

and others Oct. 5 

Donatus, St., B Oct. 22 

Donatus, St Oct. 29 

Donatus, St., M Dec. 12 

Donatus, St., M Dec. 30 

Donvina, St., M Aug. 28 

Dorothea, St., V., M . . Sept. 3 

Dorotheus, St., M Mch. 28 

Dorotheus, St., Pr., M.June 5 

Dorotheus, St., M Sept. 9 

Dorothy, St., V., M Feb. 6 

Dorymedon, St., Sena- 
tor, M Sept. 19 

Droctoveus, St., A... Mch. 10 
Drodorus, St., Pr., M..Jan. 17 

Drodorus, St., M July 6 

Drogo, St., O Apr. 16 

Drusus, St., M Dec. 14 

Drusus, St, M Dec. 24 

Dula, St., Servant, M.Mch. 25 

Dulas, St., M June 15 

Dunstan, St., B May 19 

Dympna, St., V., M...May 15 



Eadbert, St., B May 6 

Ebrulphus, St., A., O..Dec. 29 

Edelburga, St., V July 7 

Edistius, St., M Oct. 12 

Editha, St., V Sept. 16 



Edmund, St., Arch., C.Nov. 16 
Edmoind, St., King, M.Nov. 20 
Edward, St., King, M.Mch. 18 
Edward, St., King, feast 

of Oct. 13 

Egbert, St., Pr., and 

Monk Apr. 24 

Egdunus, St., Pr., M., 

and 7 others Mch. 12 

Eleazar, St., M., and 

his 8 sons Aug. 23 

Eleazar, St., Count. . .Sept. 27 
Elesbaan, St., King. . .Oct. 27 
Eleuchadius, St., B., C.Feb. 14 
Eleusippus, St., M....Jan. 17 
Eleutherius, St., B.,C.Feb. 20 
Eleutherius, St., B., M.Feb. 20 
Eleutherius, St., B., M.Apr. 18 
Eleutherius, St., P., M.May 26 

Eleutherius, St., C May 29 

Eleutherius, St., Sena- 
tor, M Aug. 4 

Eleutherius, St., M...Aug. 8 
Eleutherius, St., B...Aug. 16 
Eleutherius, St., A... Sept. 6 
Eleutheriois, St., Soldier, 

M., and others Oct. 2 

Eleutherius, St., D., M.Oct. 9 

Elias, St., M Feb. 16 

Elias, St., Pr., M Apr. 17 

Elias, St., B., M July 4 

Elias, St., Prophet July 20 

Elias, St., B., M Sept. 19 

Eligius, St., B Dec. 1 

Eliphius, St., M Oct. 16 

Eliseus, St., Pr June 14 

Elizabeth, St., V June 18 

Elizabeth, St., Queen.. July 8 

Elizabeth, St Nov. 5 

Elizabeth, St., Widow.Nov. 19 

Elphege, St. B., M Apr. 19 

Elpidephorus, St., M..Nov. 2 
Elpidius, St., B., M...Mch. 4 

Elpidius, St Sept. 1 

Elpidinis, St., A Sept. 2 

Elpidius, St., B., C...Sept. 2 



INDEX. 



421 



Elpidius, St., Senator, 

M., and companions. Nov. 16 
Emerentiana, St., V., 

M Jan. 23 

Emeric, St., O Nov. 4 

Emerita, St., V., M..Sept 22 

Emilas, St., D., M Sept. Ib 

Emiliana, St., V Jan. 5 

Emmanuel, St., M Men. 26 

Emmelia, St May 30 

Emmeramus, St., B., 

M Sept. 22 

Emygdius, St., B., M..Aug. 5 
Encratis, St., V., M...Apr. 16 

Eneco, St., A June 1 

Engelbertus, St., P., M.Nov. 7 
Ennatha, St., V., M...Nov. 13 
Ennodius, St., B., O..July 17 

Eobanus, St., M .Time 5 

Epagathus, St., M June 2 

Epaphras, S., B., M . . . July 19 
Epaphrodifcus, St., B..Mch. 22 

Eparchius, St., M Men. 23 

Eparchius, St., A July 1 

Epeditus, St., M Apr. 19 

Ephebus, St., M Feb. 14 

Ephisius, St., M Jan. 15 

Ephrem, St., D Feb. 1 

Ephrem, St., B Men. 4 

Epicharis, St., M Sept. 27 

Epictetus, St., M Jan. 9 

Epictetus, St., M Aug. 22 

Epigmenius, St., Pr., 

M Men. 24 

Epimachus, St., M....May 10 

Epimacbus, St., M Dec. 12 

Epiphana, St., M July 12 

Epiphanius, St., B., C.Jan. 21 
Epiphanius, St., B., M., 

and others Apr. 7 

Epiphaniois, St., B May 12 

Epiphany of our Lord. Jan. 6 

Epipodius, St., M Apr. 22 

Epistemis, St., M Nov. 5 

Epitacins, St., B., M..May 23 
Epolonius, St., M Jan. 24 



Equitius, St., A Aug. 11 

Erasma, St., V., M . . . Sept. 
Erasmus, St., B., M..June 2 

Erasmus, St., M Nov. 25 

Erastus, St., B., M...July 26 

Erconwald, St., B Apr. 30 

Eric, St., King, M May 18 

Ermius, St., B., C Apr. 25 

Erotheides, St., M Oct. 27 

Erotis, St., M Oct. 6 

Esdras, St., Prophet. .July 13 

Ethbin, St., A Oct. 19 

Ethelbert, St., King... Feb. 24 

Ethelwald, St., B Aug. 1 

Eoibulus, St., M Mch. 7 

Eucarpius, St.,M Mch. 18 

Eucarpus, St., M Sept. 25 

Eucharius, St., B Dec. 8 

Eucherius, St., B Feb. 20 

Eucherius, St., Sena- 
tor, B., C Nov. 16 

Eudoxius, St., Soldier, 
M., and companions. Sept. 5 

Eudoxius, St., M Nov. 2 

Eudocia, St., M Mch. 1 

Bugendus, St., A Jan. 1 

Eugenia, St., V., M...Dec. 25 

Eugenian, St., M Jan. 8 

Eugenius, St., M Jan. 4 

Eugenius, St., M Jan. 24 

Eugenius, St., B., M..Mch. 4 

Eugenius, St., M Mch. 20 

Eugenius, St., P., C..June 2 
Eugenius III, St., P...J<uly 8 
Eugenius, St., B., C, and 

about 500 clergy July 13 

Eugenius, St., M July 18 

Eugenius, St., M July 23 

Eugenius, St., M., and 

companions July 29 

Eoigenius, St., M Sept. 6 

Eugenius, St., M Sept. 25 

Eugenius, St., B Nov. 13 

Eugenius, St., B., M..Nov. 15 

Eugenius, St., O Nov. 17 

Eugenius, St., M Dec. 13 



422 



INDEX. 



Eugenius, St., Pr., M..Dec. 20 
Eugenius, St., B., C. ..Dec. 30 

Eugraphms, St., M Dec. 10 

Eulalia, St., V., M Feb. 12 

Eulalia, St., V., M....Dec. 10 
Eulampia, St., V., M..Oct. 10 

Eulampius, St., M Oct. 10 

Eulogius, St., D., M...Jan. 21 

Eulogius, St., Pr Mch. 31 

Eulogius, St., B., C May 5 

Eulogius, St., M., "and 

companions July 3 

Enilogius, St., B Sept. 13 

Eurnenus, St., B., C..Sept. 11 

Eunician, St., M Dec. 23 

Eunomia, St., Maid-ser- 
vant, M Aug. :i2 

Eunus, St., M Feb. 27 

Euphebius, St., B May 23 

Eupbemia, St., M Mcb. 20 

Euphemia, St., V., M.Sept. 3 
Eupbemia, St., V., M.Sept. j(T 

Euphrasia, St., V Mcb. 13 

Eupbrasia, St., M Mch. 20 

Euphrasia, St., V., M.May 38 
Eoiphrasius, St., B....Jan. 14 

Euphrasius, St., B May 15 

Euphronius, St., B., C.Aug. 3 

Euphronius, St., B Aug. 4 

Euphronsina, St., V., M.May 7 
Euphrosyna, St., V ... Jan. 1 
Euplius, St., D., M...Aug. 12 

Euporus, St., M Dec. 23 

E<uprepia, St., M Aug. 12 

Euprepis, St., M Nov. 30 

Euprepius, St., B., C. .Aug. 21 

Euprepius, St., M Sept. 27 

Eupsychius, St., M Apr. 9 

Eupsychius, St., M...Sept. 7 

Eusebia, St., V., M Oct. 29 

Eusebius, St., M., and 

9 others Mch. 5 

Eusebius, St., M Apr. 24 

Eoisebius, St., M Apr. 28 

Eusebius, St., B., M..June 21 
Eusebius, St., B., C...Aug. 12 



Eusebius, St., Pr., M.Aug. 14 

Eusebius, St., M Aug. 25 

Eusebius, St., M Sept. 8 

Eusebius, St., M Sept 21 

Eusebius, St., B., O...Sept. 26 

Eusebius, St., P Sept. 26 

Eusebius, St., M Oct. 4 

Eusebius, St., M Oct. 22 

Eusebius, St., Monk,M.Nov. 5 
Eusebius, St., Pr., M..Dec. 2 
Eusebius, St., B., M., 

feast of ....Dec. 16 

Eoisignius, St., Soldier, 

M Aug. 6 

Eustachius, St., M... Sept. 20 
Eustachius, St., Pr., O.Oct. 12 
Eustachius, St., M....NOV. 20 

Eustachius, St., B Nov. 28 

Eustasius, St., A Mch. 29 

Eustathius, St., B., C. .July 16 
Eoistathius, St., M....July 28 

Eusterius, St., B Oct. 19 

Eustochium, St., V ... Sept. 28 
Eustochium, St., V., M.Nov. 2 

Eustochius, St., B Sept. 19 

Eustocbius, St.. M....NOV. 16 

Eustolia, St., V Nov. 9 

Eustorgius, St., Pr Apr. 11 

Eustorgius II, St.,B.,C.June 6 

Eutosius, St., M Nov. 10 

Eustratius, St., M Dec. 13 

Euthalia, St., V., M...Aug. 27 

Euthymius, St., A Jan. 20 

Euthymras, St., B., M.Mch. 11 
Euthymius, St., D., M.May 5 

Euthymius, St., M Aug. 29 

Euthymius, St., M Dec. 24 

Eutropia, St., Girl, M.June 15 
Eutropia, St., Widow. Sept. 15 

Eutropia, St., M Oct. 30 

Eutropia, St., V., M. .Dec. 14 
Eutropius, St., Reader, 

M Jan. 12 

Eutropius, St., B., M..Apr. 30 
Eutropius, St., Soldier, 

M. Mch. 3 



INDEX. 



423 



Eutropius, St., B May 27 

Eutropius, St., M July 15 

Eutyches, St., M Apr. 15 

Eutychian, St., M July 2 

Eutychian, St., M Aug. 17 

Eutychian, St., M Sept. 2 

Enitychian, St., M Nov. 13 

Eutychian, St., P., M..Dec. 8 

Eutychius, St., M Feb. 4 

Eutychius, St., Patri- 
cian, M., and com- 
panions Mch. 14 

Eutychius, St., M., and 

others Mch. 26 

Eutychius, St., M Apr. 15 

Eutychius, St., D., M.May 21 
Eutychius, St., Monk. May 23 

Eutychius, St., M A<ug. 24 

Eutychius, St., M Sept. 19 

Eutychius, St., M Sept. 29 

Eutychius, St., M Oct. 5 

Eutychius, St., M Nov. 21 

Eutychius, St., M Dec. 11 

Eutychius, St., Pr., M.Dec. 28 

Evagrius, St., B Mch. 6 

Evagrmis, St., M Apr. 3 

Evagrius, St., M Oct. 1 

Evagrius, St., M., and 

companions Oct. 12 

Evaristus, St., M Oct. 14 

Evaristus, St., P., M..Oct. 26 

Evaristus, St., M Dec. 23 

Evasius, St., B., M Dec. 1 

Evasius, St., B Dec. * 

Evellius, St., M May 11 

Eventius, St., M Apr. 16 

Eventius, St., Pr., M..May 3 
Evergistus, St., B., 

M Oct. 24 

Evilasius, St., M Sept. 20 

Evodins, St., M Apr. 25 

Evodius, St., B., M....May 6 

Evodius, St., M Aoig. 2 

Evodius, St., M Sept. 2 

Evodins, St., B., C Oct. 8 

Evortius, St., B Sept. 7 



Ewald'us, St., Pr., M. 

(two of this name) ..Oct. 3 

Exanthus, St., M Aug. . 

Exuperantia, St., V...Apr. 26 
Exuperantius, St., B., 

O May 30 

Exuperantius, St., D., 

M Dec. 30 

Exuperia, St., M July 26 

Exuperia, St., M Oct. 31 

Exaiperius, St., M May 2 

Exuperius, St., M... .Sept. 22 
Exuperius, St., B., C.Sept. 28 

Exuperius, St., M Nov. 19 

Ezechiel, St., Prophet. Apr. 10 

F. 

Fabian, St., P., M Jan. 20 

Fabian, St., M Dec. 31 

Fabius, St., M May 11 

Fabius, St., M July 31 

Fabrician, St., M Aug. 22 

Facundus, St., M Nov. 27 

Faina, St., V., M May 18 

Faith, St., V., M Aug. 1 

Faith, St., V., M Oct. 6 

Faithful Departed, 

commemoration of . .Nov. 2 
Fandila, St., Pr., and 

Monk, M June 13 

Fantin-us, St., C Aug. 30 

Fara, St., V Dec. 7 

Faro, St., B., C Oct. 28 

Fausta, St., V., M Sept. 20 

Fausta, St Dec. 19 

Faustinian, St., B Feb. 26 

Faustinus, St., M Feb. 15 

Faustinus, St., B., C..Feb. 16 
Faustinus, St., M., and 

40 others Feb. 17 

Faustinus, St., M May 22 

Faustinus, St., M June 5 

Faustinas, St., M July 29 

Faustinus, St.. C .July 29 

Faustinus, St., M Dec. 15 



424 



INDEX. 



Faustus, St., M., and 

23 others June 24 

Faustus, St., M July 16 

Faustus, St., M Aug. 1 

Faoistus, St., Sol'r, M.Aug. 7 
Faustus, St., Pr., M., 

and companions Sept. 6 

Faustus, St., M Sept. 3 

Faustus, St., M Oct. 3 

Faustus, St., M Oct. 4 

Faustus, St., Monk, M.Oct. 5 

Faustus, St., M Oct. 13 

Faustus, St., D., M...Nov. 19 
Faustus, St., Pr., M., 

and others Nov. 2(5 

Febronia, St., V., M..June 25 
Felician, St., B., M...Jan. 24 
Felician, St., M., and 

others Jan. 30 

Felician, St., M . '. June 9 

Felician, St., M July 21 

Felician, St., B., M....Oct. 20 

Felician, St., M Oct. 29 

Felician, St., M Nov. 11 

Felician, St., M Nov. 19 

Felicissima, St., V., M.Aug. 12 
Felicissimus, St., M...May 26 
Felicissimus, St., M...July 2 
Felicissimus, St,D.,M.Aug. 6 
Felicissimus, St., M...Oct. 26 
Felicissimais, St., M...NOV. 24 

Felicitas, St., M Mch. 6 

Felicitas, St. Mch. 8 

Felicitas, St., M., mother 
of 7 sons, martyrs . . Nov. 23 

Felicula, St., M Feb. 14 

Felicula, St., V., M...June 13 
Felimis, St., Sold'r, M.June 1 

Felix, St., M Jan. 7 

Felix, St., M Jan. 9 

Felix, St., Pr Jan. 14 

Felix, St., P Jan. 30 

Felix, St., M., and com- 
panions Feb. 3 

Felix, St., B Feb. 3 

Felix, St., M Feb. 11 



Felix, St., M Feb. 21 

Felix, St., B Feb. 21 

Felix, St., B Feb. 23 

Felix III, St., P Feb. 25 

Felix, St., M Feb. 26 

Felix, St., M., and com- 
panions Mch. 3 

Felix, St., B Mch. 8 

Felix, St Mch. 8 

Felix, St., D., M Mch. 18 

Felix, St., M., and 20 

others Mch. 23 

Felix, St., B Mch. 26 

Felix, St., M Mch. 31 

Felix, St., M Apr. 16 

Felix, St., M Apr. 21 

Felix, St., Pr., M Apr. 23 

Felix, St., D., M. . May 2 

Felix, St., M May 10 

Felix, St., M May 16 

Felix, St., C May 18 

Felix, St., B., M May 18 

Felix, St., M May 24 

Felix, St., M May 28 

Felix, St., P., M May 30 

Felix, St., M June 11 

Felix, St., Monk, M..June 14 

Felix, St., M June 17 

Felix, St., Fr., M June 23 

Felix, St., M July 2 

Felix, St., M July 10 

Felix, St., M July 10 

Felix, St., M July 12 

Felix, St., B July 14 

Felix, St., B., M July 15 

Felix, St., M July 17 

Felix, St., B July 19 

Felix, St., M July 25 

Felix, St., M July 27 

Felix, St., M July 27 

Felix II, St., P., M... July 29 

Felix, St., M Aug. 1 

Felix, St., M Aug. 22 

Felix, St., Pr., C Aug. 26 

Felix, St., Pr., M Aug. 30 

Felix, St., B., M Sept. 10 



INDEX. 



425 



Felix, St., M Sept. 10 

Felix, St., M Sept. 19 

Felix, St., M Sept. 24 

Felix, St., B., M Oct. 12 

Felix, St., B., M Oct. 24 

Felix, St., Pr., M Nov. 5 

Felix, St., M Nov. 6 

Felix, St., Monk Nov. 6 

Felix, St., B., M., and 

30 others Nov. 15 

Felix de Valois, St., 

C Nov. 20 

Felix, St., B Nov. 28 

Felix, St., B Dec. 4 

Felix, St., M Dec. 5 

Felix, St., M Dec. 29 

Ferdinand III, St., 

King May 30 

Ferreol, St., M Sept. 18 

Ferreolus, St., Pr., M.June 16 
Ferrution, St., D., M. .June 16 

Ferrutius, St., M Oct. 28 

Festus, St., D., M Sept. 19 

Festus, St., M Dec. 21 

Fiaere, St., O Aug. 30 

Fibitius, St., B Nov. 5 

Fidelius, St., M Men. 23 

Fidelhis, St., M Apr. 24 

Fidelius, St., M Aug. 21 

Fidelius, St., M Oct. 28 

Fidentian, St., M Nov. 15 

Fidentius, St., M Sept. 27 

Fidentius, St., B Nov. 16 

Fidolus, St., C May 16 

Fintan, St., Pr., C Feb. 17 

Firmatus, St., D., M. . .Oct. 5 

Firmatus, St., D Oct. 5 

Firmin, St., A Mch. 11 

Firmin, St., B., C Aug. 18 

Firmin, St., B., M Sept. 25 

Firmina, St., V., M...NOV. 24 
Firminus, St., Soldier, 

M June 24 

Firminus, St., B., C...Oct. 11 

Firmus, St Mch. 11 

Firmus, St., M June 1 



Firnras, St., Sold'r, M.June 24 

Firmus, St., B July 31 

Firmus, St., M Aug. ' 9 

Flavia Domitilla, St., 

V., M May 7 

Flavia, St., V., M Oct. 5 

Flavian, St., M Jan. 28 

Flavian, St., B., M....Feb. 18 

Flavian, St., M Feb. 24 

Flavian II, St., B., M.July 4 

Flavian, St., B Aug. 23 

Flavian, St Dec. 22 

Flaviana, St., V Oct. 5 

Flavius, St., M May 7 

Flavius Clemens, St., 

Ex-Consul, M June 22 

Flocellus, St., Boy, M.Sept. 17 

Flora, St., V., M July 29 

Flora, St., V., M Nov. 24 

Florentia, St., M Nov. 10 

Florentian, St., B Nov. 28 

Florentina, St., V Jnine 20 

Florentinus, St., M... Sept. 27 

Florentinus, St., B Oct. 16 

Florentinus, St., B Oct. 17 

Florentinus, St., B., M.Jan. 3 

Florentius, St., C Feb. 23 

Florentius, St., M May 11 

Florentius, St., Monk. May 23 

Florentius, St., M July 15 

Florentius, St., M July 25 

Florentius, St., M June 5 

Florentius, St., Pr...Sept. 22 

Florentius, St., M Oct. 10 

Florenti-us, St., M Oct. 13 

Florentius, St., M Oct. 27 

Florentius, St., B Nov. 7 

Florian, St., M May 4 

Florius, St., M Oct. 26 

Florian, St., M., and 

companions Dec. 17 

Florus, St., M Aug. 18 

Florus, St., M Dec. 22 

Flos, St., M Dec. 31 

Flosculus, St., B Feb. 2 

Fortunata, St., V., M..Oct. 14 



426 



INDEX. 



Fortunatus, St.. M . . . . Jan. 9 

Fortunatus, St., M Feb. 2 

Fortunatus, St., M....Feb. 21 
Fortunatus, St., M., 

and others Feb. 26 

Fortunatus, St., M Feb. 27 

Fortunatus, St., M Men. 3 

Fortunatus, St., M Apr. 17 

Fortunatus, St., M Apr. 21 

Fortunatus, St., D., M.Apr. 23 
Fortunatus, St., Pr . . . June 1 
Fortunatus, St., M...J"unell 
Fortunatus, St., M... June 13 
Fortunatus, St., D., M.July 12 
Fortunatus, St., M... Aug. 28 

Fortunatus, St., B Oct. 14 

Fortunatus, St., M Oct. 15 

Fortuuatus, St., Lector, 

M Oct. 24 

Fortunatus, St., M Dec. 15 

Four Saints Crowned. Nov. 8 
Frances, St., Widow.. Mch. 9 
Firancis of Sales, St., 

B Jan. 29 

Francis of Paula, St.. .Apr. 2 
Francis Girolamo, St., 

C May 11 

Francis, St., C May 25 

Francis, St., C June 4 

Francis, St., Impres- 
sion of Sacred 

Wounds on Sept. 17 

Francis, St., C., birth- 
day of Oct. 4 

Francis Borgia, St., 

feast of Oct. 10 

Francis Xavier, St Dec. 3 

Fraternus, St., B., M.Sept. 29 
Frederic, St., B., M...July 18 

Frideswide, St., V Oct. 19 

Frigdian, St., B., C., 

feast of Nov. 18 

Froilanus, St.. B Oct. 5 

Fronto, St., M Apr. 16 

Fronto, St., B Oct. 25 

Fructuosa, St., M Aug. 23 



Fructuosois, St., B.. M.Jan. 21 

Fructuosus, St., B Apr. 16 

Frumentius, St.. Mer- 
chant, M Mch. 23 

Fruinentius, St., Mer- 
chant, M ....Mch. 23 

Frumentius, St., B Oct. 27 

Fulgentius, St., B Jan. 1 

Fulk, St., C May 22 

Fnilk, St., B Oct. 26 

Fursey, St., G Jan. 16 

Fusca, St., V., M Feb. 13 

Fuscian, St., M Dec. 11 

Fusculus, St., B., M..Sept. 6 

G. 

Gabdelas, St., M Sept. 29 

Gabinus, St., Pr., M..Feb. 19 

Gabinus, St., M May 30 

Gal, St., B July 1 

Galatas, St., M Apr. 19 

Galation, St., M Nov. 5 

Galdini, St., Card, and 

B Apr. 18 

Galganus, St., Hermit. Dec. 3 

Gall, St., A Oct. 16 

Galla, St., Widow Oct. 5 

Gallicamus, St., Ex-Con- 
sul, M June 25 

Gamaliel, St Aug. 3 

Gangulphus, St., M...May 11 
Gaudentia, St., V., M., 

and 3 others? Aug. 30 

Gaudentius, St., B., C.Jan. 22 
Gaudentius, St., B., C.Feb. 12 
Gaudentras, St., B., M.June 19 
Gaudentius, St., B., M.Oct. 14 

Gaudentius, St., B Oct. 25 

Gaudiosus, St., B., C..Mch. 7 

Gaudiosus, St., B Oct. 26 

Gaudiosus, St., B Oct. 28 

Gaugericus, St., B. C.Aug. 11 

Gedeon, St Sept. 1 

Gelasius, St., P Nov. 21 

Gelasius, St., M Dec. 23 



INDEX. 



427 



Gemelliis, St., M Dec. 10 

Geminian, St., B Jan. 31 

Geminian, St., M Sept. 16 

Geminus, St., M Jan. 4 

Geminus, St., M Feb. 4 

Generalis, St., M Sept. 14 

Generoso, St., M July 17 

Generosus, St., M July 17 

Genesius, St., M Aug. 25 

Genesius, St., M Aug. 25 

Genesius, St., M Oct. 11 

Genevieve, St., V Jan. 3 

Gennadius, St., M May 16 

Gentian, St., M Dec. 11 

Genuinus, St., B Feb. 5 

George, St., B Apr. 19 

George, St., M Apr. 28 

George, St., D., M July 27 

George Limniota, St.. 

Monk, M Aug. 24 

George, St., D., M Oct. 20 

George, St., B Nov. 2 

Georgia, St., V ..Feb. 15 

Gerard, St., B Apr. 23 

Gerard, St., B., M Sept. 24 

Gerard, St., A Oct. 3 

Gerard, St., B Oct. 30 

Gerard Majilla, St., C.Oct. 16 
Gerasinnus, St., Ancho- 
ret Mch. 5 

Gereon, St., M., and 

318 others Oct. 10 

Geremarus, St., A Sept. 24 

Gerinus, St., M Oct. 2 

Germana, St., M Jan. 19 

Germana Cousin, V ... June 15 

Germanicus, St., M Jan. 19 

Germanus, St., M May 2 

Germanus, St., B May 12 

Germanus, St., B., C..May 28 

Germanus, St., M July 7 

Germanus, St., B July 31 

Germanus, St., B., M.Sept. 6 
Germanus, St., B., M..Oct. 11 

Germanus, St., M Oct. 23 

Germanus, St., B., C..Oct. 30 



Germanus, St., M Nov. 3 

Germanus, St., M Nov. 13 

Gerontius, St., M Jan. 19 

Gerontius, St., B., M..May 9 

Gertrude, St., V Mch. 17 

Gertrude, St., V., Nov. 15 

Geruntius, St., B May 5 

Genmtius, St., B., M..Aug. 25 

Gervasius, St., M June 19 

Getulius, St., M June 10 

Gilbert, St., C Feb. 4 

Gildard, St., B June 8 

Giles, St., A., C Sept. 1 

Gislenus, St., B., C Oct. 9 

Glaphyra, St., V Jan. 13 

Glyceria, St., M May 13 

Glycerins, St., Pr Dec. 21 

Goar, St., Pr., O July 6 

Godard, St., B., C May 4 

Godfrey, St., B Nov. 8 

Gontram, St., King... Mch. 28 

Gordian, St., M May 10 

Gordian, St., M Sept. 17 

Gordius, St., Centurion.Jan. 3 

Gorgonia, St Dec. 9 

Gorgonius, St Mch.ll 

Gorgonius, St., M Sept. 9 

Gracilian, St., M Aug. 12 

Grata, St., Widow May 1 

Gratian, St., B Dec. 18 

Gratinian, St., Soldier, 

M June I 

Gratus, St., M., and 7 

others Dec. 5 

Gregory, St., B Jan. 4 

Gregory II, St., P Feb. 13 

Gregory X, St., P Feb. 16 

Gregory, St., B Mch. 9 

Gregory, St., the Great 

P Mch. 12 

Gregory, St., B., C Apr. 24 

Gregory Nazianzen, St., 

B., the May 9 

Gregory VII, St., P...May 25 

Gregory, St., B Aug. 25 

Gregory, St., B Sept. 30 



428 



INDEX. 



Gregory, St., B Nov. 17 

Gregory, St., B Nov. 17 

Gregory of Decapolis, 

St Nov. 20 

Gregory, St., B Nov. 23 

Gregory III, St., P Nov. 28 

Gregory, St., B., C Dec. 19 

Gregory, St., Pr., M...Dec. 24 

Griinoaldus, St., Pr.,C . Sept. 29 
Guardian Angels, Holy, 

feast of Oct. 2 

Guarinus, St.,B., Card. Feb. 6 

Gudelia, St., M Sept. 29 

Guido, St., G Sept. 12 

Gumesindus, St., Pr., 

M Jan. 13 

Gummarus, St., C Oct. 11 

Gundenes, St., V., M . . July 18 

Gundulphus, St., B . . . Jmne 17 

Gunifort, St., M Aug. 22 

Gurias, St., M Nov. 15 

H. 

Habacuc, St., Prophet. Jan. 15 
Habentius, St., Monk, 

M June 7 

Hedda, St., B July 7 

Hedwiges, St., Widow, 

Duchess, Oct. 17 

Hegesippus, St Apr. 7 

Helaniis, St., Pr Oct. 7 

Helconides, St., M May 28 

Helena, St., V May 22 

Helena, St., M Aug. 13 

Helena, St., mother 

of Constantino the 

Great Aug. 18 

Helimenas, St., Pr., M.Apr. 22 
Heliodorus, St., M., and 

others May 6 

Heliodorus, St., B July 3 

Heliodorus, St., M Sept. 28 

Heliodorus, St., M Nov. 21 

Helladius, St., M Jan. 8 

Helladius, St., B., C. . .Feb. 18 



Helladins, St., B May 8 

Helladius, St., M May 28 

Henedina, St., M May 14 

Henry I, St July 15 

Heraclas, St., B July 14 

Heracleas, St., M Sept 29 

Heraclides, St., Catechu- 
man, M June 28 

Heraclius, St., M Mch. 2 

Heraclius, St., M Mch. 11 

Heraclius, St., M May 26 

Heraclius, St., B June 8 

Heraclius, St Sept. 1 

Heraclius, St., Soldier, 

M Oct. 22 

Heradius, St., M., and 

others May 17 

Herculanus, St., B., M.Mch. 1 
Herculanus, St., B....Aug. 12 
Herculanus, St., M . . . Sept. 5 
Herculanus, St., Soldier, 

M Sept. 25 

Hereulanus, St., B., M.Nov. 7 

Herena, St., M Feb. 25 

Herenia, St Mch. 8 

Hermagoras, St., B., 

M July 12 

Hermas, St., M May 9 

Hermas, St., M Aug. 18 

Hermas, St., Pr., M...NOV. 4 
Hermelandus, St., A.. Mch. 25 

Hermellus, St., M Aug. 3 

Hermenegild, St., M. .Apr. 13 
Hermengaudas, St., B.Nov. 3 

Hermes, St., M Jan. 4 

Hermes, St., M Mch. l 

Hermes, St., M Aug. 28 

Hermes, St., M Oct. 22 

Hermes, St., M Nov. 2 

Hermes, St., Exorcist. Dec. 31 
Hermias, St., Soldier, 

M May 31 

Hermippus, St., M July 27 

Hermiterius, St., M...Mch. 3 
Hermocrates, St., M. . .July 27 



INDEX. 



429 



Hermogenes, St., Ser- 
vant, M Apr. 17 

Hermogenes, St., M...Apr. 19 
Hermogenes, St., M...Apr. 25 
Hermogenes, St., M...Sept. 2 
Hermogenes, St., M...Dec. 10 
Hermogenes, St., M., and 

others Dec. 12 

Hermolaus, St., Pr July 27 

Hermylus, St., M Jan. 13 

Herodion, St Apr. 8 

Heron, St., Neophyte, 

M Joine 28 

Heron, St., M Oct. 17 

Heron, St., M Dec. 14 

Heros, St., Sold'r, M..June 24 

Herundines, St,. V July 23 

Hesychius, St., B May 15 

Hesychius, St., Soldier, 

M June 15 

Hesychius, St., M July 7 

Hesychius, St., M Sept. 2 

Hesychius, St., C Oct. 3 

Hesychius, St., M Nov. 7 

Hesychius, St., Soldier, 

M Nov. 18 

Hesychius, St., B., M.Nov. 26 
Hieron, St., M., and 

others Nov. 7 

Hieronides, St., M....Sept. 12 

Hierotheus, St Oct. 4 

Hilaria, St., M Aug. 12 

Hilaria, St., M Dec. 3 

Hilaria, St., M Dec. 31 

Hilarious, St., Monk, 

M July 16 

Hilarion, St., Monk... July 12 

Hilarion, St., A Oct. 21 

Hilary, St., B., C.,....Jan. 14 

Hilary, St., M Apr. 9 

Hilary, St., B May 5 

Hilary, St., P., O Sept. 10 

Hilary, St., M Sept. 27 

Hilary, St., B Oct. 25 

Hilary, St., D., M Nov. 3 

Hildegardes, St., V...Sept 17 



Hiltrude, St., V Sept. 27 

Himerius, St., B June 17 

Hippolytus, St., Pr., M.Jan. 30 

Hippolytus, St., M Feb. 3 

Hippolytus, St., M., and 

others Aug. 13 

Hippolytus, St., B., M.Aug. 22 

Hippolytus, St., M Dec. 2 

Hirenarchus, St., M., and 

others Nov. 27 

Holy&mdash;Innocents Dec. 28 

Homobonus, St., C Nov. 13 

Honorata, St., V Jan. 11 

Honoratus, St., A Jan. 16 

Honoratus, St., B., C..Jan. 16 
HonoratTus, St., B., C..Feb. 8 

Honoratus, St., B May 16 

Honoratus, St., B Oct. 28 

Honoratus, St., M Dec. 22 

Honoratus, St., M Dec. 29 

Honorius, St., B Apr. 24 

Honorius, St., B., C. . .Sept. 30 

Honorius, St., M Nov. 21 

Honorius, St., M Nov. 21 

Honorius, St., M Dec. 30 

Hope, St., V., M Aug. 1 

Hormisdas, St., P., C. .Aug. 6 

Hormisdas, St., M Aug. 8 

Horres, St., M Mch. 13 

Hortulanus, St., B Nov. 28 

Hospitius, St., C May 21 

Hubert, St., B Nov. 3 

Hugh, St., B Apr. 1 

Hugh, St., B., C Apr. 9 

Hugh, St, A Apr. 29 

Hugh, St., B Nov. 17 

Hugolinus, St., M Oct. 13 

Hyacinth, St., M July 17 

Hyacinth, St., M July 26 

Hyacinth, St., O Aug. 17 

Hyacinth, St., M Sept 11 

Hyaclntha de Maris- 

cotti, St., V Jan. 30 

Hyacinthus, St, M....Feb. 10 

Hyacinthus, St., M July 3 

Hyacinthus, St., M...Sept. 9 



430 



INDEX. 



Hyacinthus, St., M Oct. 29 

Hygimus, St., P., M Jan. 11 

Hypatius, St., Boy, M.June 3 

Hypatius, St., C June 17 

Hypatius, St., Tribune, 

M June 18 

Hypatius, St., B., M..Aug. 29 
Hypatius, St., B., M..Nov. 14 



I. 



la, M., and companions, 

with 9,000 captives . .Aug. 4 

Ignatius, St., B., M Feb. 1 

Ignatius, St., M Feb. 1 

Ignatius, St., M Feb. 3 

Ignatius, St., C July 31 

Ignatius, St., B Oct. 23 

Ignatius, St., B., M...Dec. 17 

Ildefonsus, St.. B Jan. 23 

Illidius, St., B July 7 

Illuminati, St., V Nov. 29 

Illuminatus, St., C May 11 

Immaculate Conception 

oftheB.M.V Dec. 8 

Impression of the Sa- 
cred Wounds re- 
ceived by St. Fran- 
cis Sept. 17 

Indaletius, St., B May 15 

Indes, St., Eunuch. M.Dec. 28 
Ingen, St., Soldier, M.Dec. 20 

Innocent, St., B., C Apr. 17 

Innocent, St., M June 17 

Innocent V. St., P Jame 22 

Innocent, St., M., and 

others July 4 

Innocent, St., P., C. . . .July 28 

Innocent, St., M Sept. 22 

Iphigenia, St., V Sept. 21 

Irais, St.. M., and her 

companions Sept. 22 

Irenseus, St., M Feb. 10 

Irenseus, St., B., M...Mch. 25 
Irenseus, St., D., M...Mch. 26 
Irenseus, St., M Apr. 1 



Irenseus, St., M May 5 

Irenseus, St., B., M...June 28 
Irenseus, St., D., M. . . . July 3 

Irenaeus, St., M Aug. 26 

Irenseus, St., M., and 

others Dec. 15 

Irene, St., V., M Apr. 5 

Irene, St., V., M Oct. 20 

Irenes, St., M May 5 

Irenes, St., M Sept. 18 

Irenion, St., B Dec. 16 

Irmina, St., V Dec. 24 

Isaac, St., Monk, C Apr. 11 

Isaac, St., Monk, M..Joine 3 

Isacius, St., M Apr. 21 

Isacius, St., B., M Sept. 21 

Isaias, St., M Feb. 16 

Isaias, St., Prophet, M.July 6 
Isaurus, St., D., M...June 17 
Ischyrion, St., Officer, 

M., and 5 others .... June 1 

Ischyrion, St., M Dec. 22 

Isidore, St., B., M Jan. 2 

Isidore, St., B., C Jan. 2 

Isidore, St Jan. 15 

Isidore, St., Monk Feb. 4 

Isidore, St., M Feb. 5 

Isidore, St., B Apr. 4 

Isidore, St., Monk, M..Apr. 17 

Isidore, St., M May 10 

Isidore, St., M May 15 

Isidore, St., M Dec. 14 

Ismael, St., M June 17 

Ives, St., C May 19 



J. 



Jader, St., M Sept. 10 

James, St., Hermit Jan. 28 

James, St., Pr., M Apr. 22 

James, St., D., M Apr. 30 

James, St. (the Less), 

Apostle, M May 1 

James, St., B July 15 

James, St (the Great), 

Apostle, M July 25 



INDEX. 



431 



James, St., Hermit Aug. 6 

James, St., Pr., M Nov. 1 

James&mdash;Intercisus, St., 

M., and others Nov. 27 

James of La Marca, 

St., C Nov. 28 

Jane Frances Fremiot 

de Chantal, St Aoig. 21 

Januaria, St., M Mch. 2 

Januaria, St., M July 17 

Januarius, St. M Jan. 7 



Januarius, St. 

Januarhis, St. 

Januarius, St. 

Januarius, St. 

Januarius, St. 

Januarius, St. 



M Jan. 19 

M Apr. 8 

M July 10 

M July 10 

M July 11 

M July 15 



Januarius, St., Soib- 

deacon, M Aug. 6 

Januarius, St, B., M.Sept. 19 

Januarius, St., M Oct. 13 

Januarius, St., Pr., M.Oct. 24 
Januarius, St., D., M..Oct. 25 

Januarius, St., M Dec. 2 

Januarius, St., M Dec. 15 

Jason, St .Tilly 12 

Jason, St., M Dec. 3 

Jerome 2Emiliani, St., 

C., feast of July 20 

Jerome, St., Pr., and 

Doctor Sept. 30 

Jeremias, St., M Feb. 16 

Jeremias, St., Prophet. May 1 
Jeremias, St., Monk, 

M June 7 

Jeremias, St., M June 17 

Jeremias, St., M Sept. 15 

Jesus, Child, bringing 

back of from Egypt. Jan. 7 
Joachim, St., father of 

the Blessed Virgin 

Mary Aug. 16 

Joachim, St Apr. 16 

Joanna, St May 24 

Joannicius, St., A Nov. 4 

Job, Holy, Prophet May 10 



Joel, St., Prophet July 13 

John the Good, St., B., 

C Jan. 10 

John, St., B., C Jan. 12 

John Calybita, St Jan. 15 

John, St., Monk Jan. 17 

John the Almoner, St., 

B Jan. 23 

John Chrysostom, St., 

B Jan. 27 

John, St., Pr Jan. 28 

John, St., M Jan. 31 

John of Matha, St., C.Feb. 8 
John Joseph of the 

Cross, St Mch. 5 

John of God, St Mch. 8 

John, St., Monk Mch. 19 

John, St., Hermit Mch. 27 

John Climacus, "St., A. Mch. 30 

John, St. A Apr. 27 

John, St., before the 

Latin Gate May 6 

John Damascene, St . . . May 6 

John, St., B May 7 

John the Silent, St.... May 13 
John B. de la Salle, 

St., C May 15 

John Nepomucen, St., 

M May 16 

John B. de Rossi, St., 

C May 23 

John de Prado. St., M.May 24 

John, St., P., M May 27 

John, St., B June 6 

John of St. Facundus, 

St., C June 12 

John Francis Regis, St., 

C June 16 

John, St., B June 22 

John, St., Pr., M Jiune 23 

John the Baptist, St., 

Nativity of June 24 

John, St., surnamed 

Therestus June 24 

John, St., M June 26 

John, St., B., M July 11 



432 



INDEX. 



John Gualbert, St., A.July 12 

John, St., Monk July 21 

John, St., Holy Sleeper, 

M July 27 

John Columbini, St.... July 31 
John Berchmans, St., 

O Aug. 13 

John, St., M Aug. 15 

John, St., B Aug. 27 

John, St., M Aug. 27 

John, St., M Sept. 7 

John, St., M Sept. 16 

John, St., M Sept. 23 

John, St., M Sept. 27 

John Leonard!, St., 

C Oct. 10 

John Cantius, St., Pr., 

C Oct. 20 

John of Capistran, St., 

O Oct. 23 

John, St., B., C Oct. 29 

John, St., B., M Nov. 1 

John, St., Hermit, M..Nov. 12 

John Bonus, St Nov. 23 

John of the Cross, St., 

C Nov. 24 

John, St., M Dec. 3 

John, St., B., surnamed 

Thaumaturgus Dec. 5 

John, St., M Dec. 21 

John, St., Apostle and 

Evangelist Dec. 27 

Jonas, St., Monk Feb. 11 

Jonas, St., M Mch. 29 

Jonas, St., Prophet.. .Sept. 21 

Jonas, St., Pr., M Sept. 22 

Josaphat, St., Arch- 
bishop, M Nov. 12 

Josaphat, St Nov. 27 

Joseph of Leonissa, 

St., C Feb. 4 

Joseph, St., Deacon... Feb. 15 
Joseph of Arimathea, 

St., Senator Mch. 17 

Joseph, St., Spouse of 

the M. B. V. Mary. Mch. 19 



Joseph, St., a Samari- 
tan, M Mch. 20 

Joseph Oroil, St., C...Mch. 23 

Joseph, St., Pr., M Apr. 22 

Joseph, St., surnamed 

the Just July 20 

Joseph, St., Count July 22 

Joseph, St., Confessor . Aug. 27 
Joseph of Cupertino, 

St., C Sept. 18 

Josue, St Sept. 1 

Jovinian, St., Lector, 

M May 5 

Jovinus, St., M Mch. 2 

Jovinus, St., M Mch. 26 

Jovita, St., M Feb. 15 

Jucunda, St., M July 27 

Jucunda, St., V Nov. 25 

Jucundian, St., M July 4 

Jucundinus, St., M . . . . July 21 

Jucundus, St., M Jan. 9 

Jucundus, St., B. C Nov. 14 

Jude (Thaddeus), St., 
Apostle, M. birthday 

of Oct. 28 

Judocus, St., C Dec. 13 

Julia, St., M Apr. 16 

Julia, St., V., M May 22 

Julia, St., M July 15 

Julia, St., V., M July 21 

Julia, St., M Jiuly 27 

Julia, St., M Oct. 1 

Julia, St., V., M Oct. 7 

Julia, St., V., M Dec. 10 

Julian, St., M Jan. 7 

Julian, St., M Jan. 8 

Julian, St., M Jan. 9 

Julian Sabas, the El- 
der, St Jan. 14 

Julian, St., B Jan. 27 

Julian, St., M Jan. 27 

Julian, St., M Jan. 27 

Julian, St., B Jan. 28 

Julian, St., M Feb. 12 

Julian, St., M Feb. 13 



INDEX. 



433 



Julian, St., M., and 

5,000 others Feb. 16 

Joilian, St., M Feb. 17 

Julian, St., M Feb. 1$ 

Julian, St., M Feb. 24 

Julian, St., M Feb. 27 

Julian, St., B., C Men. 8 

Julian, St., M May 23 

Julian, St., M June 5 

Julian, St., Sold'r, M..May 27 

Julian, St., M June 5 

Julian, St., Monk June 9 

Julian, St., M July 18 

Julian, St., M July 20 

Julian, St., M A>ug. 7 

Julian, St., M. and 

others Aug. 9 

Julian, St., M Aug. 12 

Julian, St., M Aug. 25 

Julian, St., M Aug. 28 

Julian, St., M Sept. 2 

Julian, St., M Sept. 4 

Julian, St., M Sept. 13 

Julian, St., Hermit. . .Oct. 18 

Julian, St., B Dec. 9 

Juliana, St., Widow .. .Feb. 7 

Juliana, St., V., M Feb. 16 

Juliana, St., M Mch. 20 

Juliana Falconieri, St., 

V June 19 

Juliana, St., M Aug. 12 

Juliana, St., M Aug. 17 

Juliana, St., M Aug. 18 

Juliana, St., M Nov. 1 

Julitta, St., V., M May 18 

Julitta, St., M June 16 

Julitta, St., M July 30 

Julius, St., M Jan. 19 

Julius, St., Pr., C Jan. 31 

Julius, St., P Apr. 12 

Julius, St.. M July 1 

Julius, St., Senator, 

M Aug. 19 

Julius, St., M Dec. 3 

Julius, St., M Dec. 5 

Julinis, St., M Dec. 20 



Justa, St., M May 14 

Justa, St., M July 15 

Justa, St., V., M July 19 

Justin, St., B Jan. 1 

Justin, St., M Aug. 1 

Justin, the Philoso- 
pher, St., M Apr. 14 

Justin, St., Pr., M Sept. 17 

Justina, St., V., M May 14 

Justina, St., M June 16 

Justina, St., V., M....Sept. 26 

Justina, St., V., M Oct. 7 

Justina, St., V. M Nov. 30 

Justinus, St., M July 18 

Justinus, St., M Dec. 12 

Justus, St., M Feb. 25 

Justus, St., M Feb. 28 

Justus, St., B May 28 

Justus, St., M July 2 

Justus, St., Sold r r, M.July 14 

Justus, St., M July 21 

Justus, St., Boy, M...Aug. 6 

Justus, St., B., C Sept. 2 

Justus, St., Boy, M...Oct. 18 

Justus, St., M Nov. 2 

Justus, St., B Nov. 10 

Justus, St., M Dec. 14 

Juvenal, St., B., C May 3 

Juvenal, St., M May 7 

Juventinus, St., M....Jan. 25 

Juventius, St., M June 1 

Juventius, St., B Sept. 12 

K. 

Kenny, St., A Oct. 13 

Kieran, St., A Sept. 9 

Kilian ,St, B., M July 8 

L. 

Ladislas, St., King. . .June 27 

Lady of Ransom Sept. 24 

Lady of Victory, Our. 

Commemoration of. .Oct. 7 
Lsetantius, St., M July 17 



434 



INDEX. 



Laetrus, St., M Sept. 1 

Lsetus, St., B., M Sept. 6 

Lsetus, St., Pr., C Nov. 5 

Lambert, St., B., O Apr. 14 

Lambert, St., M Apr. 16 

Lambert, St., B., M..Sept. 17 

Landelin, St., A June 15 

Landoaldus, St., Pr...Mch. 19 

Largius, St., M Aug. 12 

Largus, St., M Aug. 8 

Latinus, St., B Men. 24 

Laurentia, St., M Oct. 8 

Laurentinus, St., M...Feb. 3 
Laurentinus, St., M . . . June 3 

Laoirian, St., B., M July 4 

Laurus, St., Carver in 

Stone, M Aug. 18 

Lauto, St., B Sept. 22 

Lawrence, St., B Feb. 2 

Lawrence, St., Pr., M., 

and some boys Apr. 30 

Lawrence of Brindisi, 

St., C July 22 

Lawrence, St., Arch- 
deacon, M Aug. 10 

Lawrence Justinian, 

St., Patriarch, C.... Sept. 5 

Lawrence, St., M Apr. 28 

Lawrence, St., B Nov. 14 

Lazarus, St., B Feb. 11 

Lazarus, St., Monk, 

M. .../ Feb. 23 

Lazarus, St., M Mch. 27 

Lazarus, St., B Dec. 17 

Lea, St., Widow Mch. 22 

Leander, St., B Feb. 27 

Leo, St., B Feb. 20 

Leo, St., M Mch. 1 

Leo, St., P., C Apr. 11 

Leo IX, St., P Apr. 19 

Leo, St., B., C Apr. 22 

Leo, St., O May 25 

Leo III, St., P June 12 

Leo, St., Subdeacon . . Joine 30 

Leo II, St., P July 3 

Leo IV, St., P July 17 



Leo, St., M Aug. 18 

Leo, St., M Oct. 13 

Leo, St., C Nov. 10 

Leobardus, St., Ancho- 
ret Jan. 18 

Leobinus, St., B Sept. 15 

Leocadia, St., V., M. . .Dec. 9 
Leocritia, St., V., M..Mch. 15 
Leodegarius, St., B., M.Oct. 2 

Leonard, St., G Nov. 6 

Leonard of Port Maur- 
ice, St., C Nov. 25 

Leonides, St., M., and 

his companions Jan. 28 

Leonides, St., M June 15 

Leonides, St., M Apr. 22 

Leonides, St., M Aug. 8 

Leonides, St., M Sept. 2 

Leonilla, St., M Jan. 17 

Leontia, St., C Dec. 6 

Leontius, St., B Jan. 13 

Leontius, St., B Mch. 19 

Leontius, St., M Apr. 24 

Leontius, St., Soldier, 

M June 18 

Leontiois, St., M., and 

companions July 10 

Leontius, St., M., and 
six husbandmen . . . Aug. 1 

Leontius, St., M Sept. 12 

Leontius, St., M Sept 27 

Leopardus, St., M Sept. 30 

Leopold, St., Marquis. Nov. 15 
Leovigildus, St., Monk, 

M Aug. 20 

Leucius, St., B., C Jan. 11 

Leucius, St., M Jan. 11 

Leoicius, St., M Jan. 28 

Leutfrid, St., A June 21 

Lewis, St., M Apr. 30 

Liberata, St., V Jan. 18 

Liberatus, St., A., M..Aug. 17 

Liberatus, St., M Dec. 20 

Liberius, St., B Dec. 30 

Liborius, St., B., C July 23 

Libya, St., M June 15 



INDEX. 



435 



Licarion, St, M June 7 

Licerius, St, B Aug. 27 

Licinius, St., M Aug. 7 

Ligorius, St., M Sept. 13 

Liliosa, St., M July 27 

Linus, St., P., M Sept. 28 

Lioba, St., V Sept. 28 

Liphardus, St., Pr., C.June 3 

Litteus, St., M Sept. 10 

Livinus, St., B., M Nov. 12 

Longinus, St., Soldier, 

M Mch. 15 

Longinus, St., M., and 

four others Apr. 24 

Longinus, St., M June 24 

Longinus, St., Soldier, 

M July 21 

Lorgius, St., M Mch. 2 

Louis, St., B Aug. 19 

Louis, St., King, O Aug. 25 

Louis Bertrand, St Oct. 9 

Louisa Albertonia, St_Jan. 31 
Lourdes, Our Lady of .Feb. 11 

Lucanus, St., M Oct. 30 

Lucas, St., D., M Apr. 22 

Lucia, St, M July (> 

Lucia, St., M Sept. 1(1 

Lucia, St., V., M Dec. 13 

Lucian, St., Pr., M Jan. 7 

Lucian, St., Pr., M Jan. s 

Lucian, St., M May 28 

Lucian, St., M June 13 

Lucian, St., M July 7 

Lucian, St., M., and 

companions Oct. 26 

Lucian, St., M Dec. 24 

Lucidius, St., B Apr. 26 

Lucilla, St., V., M July 29 

ljucilla, St, V., M Oct. 31 

Lucillian, St, M June 3 

Lucina, St June 30 

Lucinius, St, B Feb. 13 

Luciolus, St, M Mch. 3 

Lucius, St, M Feb. 8 

companions Feb. 11 

Lucius, St, M Feb. 15 



Lucius, St, B., M., and 

Lucinis, St., M Feb. 18 

Lucius, St, M Feb. 24 

Lucius, St, B., M Mch. 2 

Lucius, St, P., M Mch. 4 

Lucius, St Apr. 22 

Lucius, St, B May 6 

Lucius, St, Pr., M May 13 

Lucius, St, M May 23 

Lucius, St, Senator, 

M Aug. 20 

Lucius, St., M Sept. 10 

Lucius, St., M Oct. 4 

Lucius, St, M Oct. 19 

Lucius, St., M Oct. 25 

Lucius, St, M Oct. 29 

; Lucius, St., M Dec. 1 

Lucius, St., King Dec. 3 

Ducius, St, M Dec. 15 

Lucretia, St, V., M.-.Nov. 23 
Lucy, St, V., M., and 

22 others June 25 

Ludger, St, B Mch. 2b* 

Luke, St, M Sept 10 

Luke, St, Evangelist. .Oct. 18 

Lullus, St., B., G Oct. 16 

Lupercus., M Apr. 16 

Lupercus, St, M Oct. 30 

Luperius, St, B., C. ..Nov. 15 

Lupicimus, St., B Feb. 3 

Lupicinus, St., A Mch. 21 

Lupicinus, St., B May 31 

Luppus, St., M Aug. 23 

Lupus, St, B., C July 29 

Lupus, St., B., C Sept 1 

Lupus, St., Anchoret 

and B Sept. 25 

Dupus, St Oct. 14 

Lupus, St, B., C Dec. 2 

Lutgard, St., V June 1C 

Luxorius, St., M Aug. 21 

Lybosus, St, M Dec. 29 

Lydia, St., M Mch. 27 

Lydia, St, Purple Sel- 
ler Aug. 3 



436 



INDEX. 



M. 

Macaria, St., M Apr. 8 

Macarius, St., A Jan. 2 

Macarius, St., B Jan. 15 

Macarius, St., M Feb. 28 

Macarius, St., B., C..Mch. 10 

Macarius, St., O Apr. 1 

Macarras, St., B Apr. 10 

Macarius, St.,B June 20 

Macarius, St., M Aug. 12 

Macarius, St., Soldier, 

M Sept. 5 

Macarius, St., M Sept. 6 

Macarius, St., M Dec. 8 

Macarius, St., Pr., M . . Dec. 20 

Macedon, St., M Mch. 27 

Macedonius, St., M...Mch. 13 
Macedonius, St., M...Sept. 12 
Machabees, 7, SS., with 

their mother, MM . . Aug. 1 

Macra, St., V., M Jan. 6 

Macrina, St Jan. 14 

Macrina, St., V July 19 

Macrinus, St., M Sept. 17 

Macrobius, St., M July 20 

Macrobiius, St., M Sept. 13 

Magina, St., M Dec. 3 

Maginus, St., M Aug. 25 

Maglorius, St., B Oct. 24 

Magnericus, St., B., C.July 25 

Magnus, St., M Jan. 1 

Magnus, St., M Feb. 4 

Magnus, St., M Feb. 15 

Magnus, St., Subdeacon, 

M Aug. 6 

Magivus, St., B. M Aug. 19 

Magnus, St., M Sept 4 

Magnus, St., B Oct. 6 

Magnus, St., B., C Nov. 5 

Mainiel, St., A May 11 

Majoricus, St., M Dec. 6 

Malachy, St., Prophet. Jan. 14 

Malachy, St., B Nov. 3 

Malchus, St., M Mch. 28 



Malchus, St., Holy 

Sleeper, M July 27 

Malchus, St., Monk.... Oct. 21 

Malo, St., B Nov. 15 

Mamas, St., M Aug. 17 

Mamelta, St., M Oct. 17 

Mamertus, St., B May 11 

Mamilian, St., M Mch. 12 

Mamillus, St Mch. 8 

Manahen, St May 24 

Mancius, St., M May 15 

Mandales, St., M June 10 

Manetius, St., C Aug. 20 

Mannea, St., M Aug. 27 

Mansuetus, St., B., C . . Feb. 19 
Mansuebus, St., B., C. .Sept. 3 
Mansuetus, St., B., M.Sept. 6 
Mansuetus, St, B., M.Nov. 28 
Mansuetus, St., M., and 

companions Dec. 30 

Manuel, St., M June 17 

Mappolicus, St., M Apr. 17 

Maprilis, St., M Aug. 22 

Marana, St Aug. 3 

Marcella, St, Widow.. Jan. 31 

Marcella, St., M June 28 

Marcellian, St., M June 18 

Marcellian, St., M Aug. 9 

Marcellin, St., B Apr. 20 

Marcellin, St., Pr., C..Jmly 14 

Marcellinus, St., M Jan. 2 

Marcellinus, St., B Jan. 9 

Marcellinus, St, P., M.Apr. 26 
Marcellinus, St., Pr.,M.June 2 
Marcellinus, St., M...June 5 
Marcellinus, St., Tribune, 

M Aug. 27 

Marcellinus, St.. B., C.Oct: 5 
Marcellus, St., P., M...Jan. 16 

Marcellus, St., M Feb. 19 

Marcellus, St., B Apr. 9 

Marcellus, St., M June 29 

Marcellus, St, B., M..Aug. 14 
Marcellus, St, B., M. .Sept. 4 

Marcellus, St, M Sept 4 

Marcellus, St, M Oct. 6 



INDEX. 



437 



Marcellus, St., M Oct. 

Marcellus, St., Centu- 
rion, M Oct. 30 

Marcellus, St., B Nov. 1 

Marcellus, St., M Nov. 16 

Marcellus, St., Pr., M.Nov. 26 
Marcellus, St., D., M..Dec. 2 

Marcellus, St., A Dec. 29 

Marcellus, St., D., M..Dec. 30 

Marcia, St., M Mch. 3 

Marcia, St., M Jane 5 

Marcia, St., M July 2 

Marcian, St., M Jan. 4 

Marcian, St., Pr Jan. 10 

Marcian, St., B., M...Mch. 6 

Marcian, St., M Apr. 17 

Marcian, St., Pr Apr. 20 

Marcian, St., B., C May 22 

Marcian, St., M., and 

others June 5 

Marcian, St., B., M...June 14 

Marcian, St., M June 17 

Marcian, St., M July 11 

Marcian, St., M Aug. 9 

Marcian, St., M Sept. 16 

Marcian, St., M Oct. 4 

Marcian, St., Chanter, 

M Oct. 25 

Marcian, St., C Nov. 2 

Ma.rciana, St., V., M. . .Jan. 9 
Marciana, St., M., and 

children May 24 

Marciana, St., V., M..July 12 

Marcionitta, St., M Jan. 9 

Marcius, St., M Mch. 13 

Marcus, St., M June 18 

Mardarius, St., M Dec. 13 

Mardonius, St., M Jan. 24 

Mardonius, St., M Dec. 23 

Mareas. St., B., M., and 

bishops and clerics. .Apr. 22 

Margaret, St Feb. 22 

Margaret, St., Queen.. June 10 
Margaret, St., V., M..J-uly 20 
Margaret, St., Widow. Aug. 27 
Maria, St., V., M Nov. 24 



Marian, St., D., M Jan. 17 

Marian, St., Lector, M.Apr. 30 

Marian, St., C Aug. 19 

Marian, St., M Oct. 17 

Marian, St., D., M Dec. 1 

Marina, St., V., M June 18 

Marina, St., V., M July 18 

Marinus, St., M Jan. 25 

Marinus, St., Soldier, 

M Mch. 3 

Marinus, St., M July 5 

Marinus, St., M July 10 

Marinus, St., M Aug. 8 

Marinus, St., D Sept. 4 

Marinus, St., Senator. 

M Dec. 26 

Marius, St., M Jan. 19 

Mark, St., M Mch. 19 

Mark, St., M Mch. 24 

Mark, St., Evangelist. Apr. 25 

Mark, St., B., M Apr. 28 

Mark, St., M J-uly 3 

Mark, St., M Aug. 31 

Mark, St Sept. 1 

Mark, St., B., also called 

John Sept. 27 

Mark, St., Shepherd, M., 

and others Sept. 28 

Mark, St., M Oct. 4 

Mark, St., P., C Oct. 7 

Mark, St., B., M Oct. 22 

Mark, St., Solitary Oct. 24 

Mark, St., M Oct. 25 

Mark, St., M Nov. 16 

Mark, St., M Nov. 22 

Mark, St., M Dec. 15 

Maro, St., M Apr. 15 

Marolus, St., B., C Apr. 23 

Marotas, St., M Mch. 27 

Martana, St., M Dec. 2 

Martha, St., M Jan. 19 

Martha, St., V., M Feb. 23 

Martha, St., V July 29 

Martha, St., V., M., and 

others Oct. 20 

Martia, St., M June 21 



438 



INDEX. 



Martial, St., M Apr. 16 

Martial, St., B June 30 

Martial, St., M July 10 

Martial, St., M., and 

companions Aug. 22 

Martial, St., M., and 

others Sept. 28 

Martial, St., M Oct. 13 

Martin, St., B June 21 

Martin, St., B July 1 

Martin, St., B., M July 19 

Martin, St., A .Oct. 24 

Martin, St., B., C Nov. 11 

Martin, St., P., M Nov. 12 

Martin, St.. A Dec. 7 

Martina, St., V., M Jan. 30 

Martinian, St., B Jan. 2 

Martinian, St., M July 2 

Martinian, St., Holy 

Sleeper, M July 27 

Martinian, St., M., and 

brothers Oct. 16 

Martyr, Holy deacon 

in Valeria Mch. 14 

Martyr deacon of St. 

Anthimus Dec. 23 

Martyrius, St., Monk.. Jan. 23 

Martyr ius, St., M May 29 

Martyrinis, St., Subdeacon, 

M Oct. 25 

Martyrs, Holy,at Rome.Jan. 2 
Martyrs,Holy, in Egypt. Jan. 5 
Martyrs, Holy, 40 Sol- 
diers, at Rome Jan. 13 

Martyrs, Holy, in Afri- 
ca Jan. 6 

Martyrs, Holy, 38 Monks, 

on Mt. Sinai Jan. 14 

Martyrs, Holy, at Alex- 
andria Jan. 28 

Martyrs, Holy, in Pon- 

tus Feb. 5 

Martyrs, Holy, 26, in 

Japan Feb. 5 

Martyrs, Holy, Monks, 
at Constantinople... Feb. 8 



Martyrs, Holy, in Per- 
sia Feb. 8 

Martyrs, Holy, 10 Sol- 
diers, at Rome Feb. 10 

Martyrs, Holy, in Nu- 
midia Feb. 11 

Martyrs, Holy, Monks 
and others, in Pales- 
tine Feb. 19 

Martyrs, Holy, in Phoe- 
nicia Feb. 20 

Martyrs, Holy, 79, in 

Sicily Feb. 21 

Martyrs, Holy, in Ara- 
bia Feb. 22 

Martyrs, Holy, 72, at 

Sirmium Feb. 23 

Martyrs, Holy, at Alex- 
andria Feb. 28 

Martyrs, Holy, 260, at 
Rome Mch. 1 

Martyrs, Holy, 80, in 
Campania Mch. 2 

Martyrs, Holy, at 
Rome Mch. 2 

Martyrs, Holy, 900, at 
Rome Mch. 4 

Martyrs, Holy, 42, in 

Syria Mch. 6 

Martyrs, Holy, 42, in 
Persia Mch. 10 

Martyrs, Holy, 40 Sol- 
diers, at Sebaste Mch. 10 

Martyrs, Holy, at An- 
tioch Mch. 11 

Martyrs, Holy, 47, at 
Rome Mch. 14 

Martyrs, Holy, 2 Monks, 
in Valeria Mch. 14 

Martyrs, Holy, at Alex- 
andria Mch. 17 

Martyrs, Holy, 10,000, 
at Nicodemia . .Mch. 18 

Martyrs, Holy, at Alex- 
andria Mch. 21 



INDEX. 



439 



Martyrs, Holy, 262, at 
Rome Mch. 25 

Martyrs, Holy, at Con- 
stantinople Mch. 30 

Martyrs, Holy, in Af- 
rica Apr. 5 

Martyrs, Holy, 5, in Les- 
bos Apr. 5 

Martyrs, Holy, 122, in 
Persia Apr. 6 

Martyrs, Holy, 200, at 

Sinope Apr. 7 

Martyrs, Holy, 7 Vir- 
gins, at Sirmium Apr. 9 

Martyrs, Holy, at 
Rome Apr. 10 

Martyrs, Holy, in Per- 
sia Apr. 22 

Martyrs, Holy, 39, in 
Palestine May 4 

Martyrs, Holy, 310, in 
Persia May 9 

Martyrs, Holy, at Alex- 
andria May 13 

Martyrs, Holy, Monks, 
in Palestine May 16 

Martyrs, Holy, 6 Vir- 
gins, at Nicodemia . . May 19 

Martyrs, Holy, in Cap- 
padocia May 23 

Martyrs, Holy, in Meso- 
potamia May 23 

Martyrs, Holy, Monks, 
in Palestine May 28 

Martyrs, Holy, 1525, in 
Umbria May 29 

Martyrs, Holy, 20, at 
Tarsus June 6 

Martyrs, Holy, 262, at 
Rome June 17 

Martyrs, Holy, 10,000, 
on Mt. Ararat June 22 

Martyrs, Holy, 1480, at 

Samaria June 22 

Martyrs, Holy, at Nico- 
media June 23 



Martyrs, Holy, at 
Rome June 24 

Martyrs, Holy, 3 Sol- 
diers, at Rome July 2 

Martyrs, Holy, Monks, 
at Constantinople. ..July 8 

Martyrs, Holy, 50 Sol- 
diers, at Porto Joily 8 

Martyrs, Holy, 19, at 
Gorcum July 9 

Martyrs, Holy, in Bul- 
garia July 23 

Martyrs, Holy, 83 Sol- 
diers, at Amiterno. .July 24 

Martyrs, Holy, in 
Arabia July 27 

Martyrs, Holy, in The- 
bais July 28 

Martyrs, Holy, 350 
Monks, in Syria July 31 

Martyrs, Holy, Monks 
and others, in East 
India Aug. 3 

Martyrs, Holy, 23, at 
Rome Aug. 5 

Martyrs, Holy, 200 Monks, 
at Burgos Aug. 6 

Martyrs, Holy, in Af- 
rica Aug. 9 

Martyrs, Holy, at Alex- 
andria Aug. 10 

Martyrs, Holy, 165 Sol- 
diers, at Rome Aug. 10 

Martyrs, Holy, 33 Aoig. 16 

Martyrs, Holy, 300, at 
Carthage Aug. 24 

Martyrs, Holy, 37, in 
Thracia Aug. 20 

Martyrs, Holy, 60, in 
Africa Aug. 30 

Martyrs, Holy, 12 Brothers 
at Benevento Sept. 1 

Martyrs, Holy, 49, at 
Chalcedon Sept. 24 

Martyrs, Holy, at 
Treves Oct. 6 



440 



INDEX. 



Martyrs, Holy, 496G, in 
Africa Oct. 12 

Martyrs, Holy, 300, at 
Cologne Oct. 15 

Martyrs, Holy, 270, in 
Africa Oct. 16 

Martyrs, Holy, 46 Sol- 
diers, at Rome Oct. 25 

Martyrs, Holy, 13, at 
Alexandria Oct. 30 

Martyrs, Holy, 220, in 

Africa Oct. 30 

Martyrs, Holy, at Sara- 
gossa Nov. 3 

Martyrs, Holy, 10, at 

Theopolis Nov. 6 

Martyrs, Holy, at 

Emesa Nov. 14 

Martyrs, Holy, Virgins, 

in Africa Dec. 16 

Martyrs, Holy, 30, at 

Rome Dec. 22 

Martyrs, Holy, 20, at 
Nicomedia Dec. 23 

Martyrs, Holy, 40 Vir- 
gins, at Antioch Dec. 24 

Martyrs, Holy, Many 
Thousand, at Nico- 
media Dec. 25 

Maruthas, St., B., M..Dec. 4 

Mary of Egypt, St., ''the 

Sinner" Apr. 2 

Mary Cleophas, St Apr. 9 

Mary of the Martyrs, 
St., dedic. of Church 
of, at Rome May 13 

Mary, St., Mother of 
James May 25 

Mary Magdalen, St., V.May 27 

Mary, St., Mother of John, 
surnamed Mark June 29 

Mary, B. V., of Mount 

Carmel July 16 

Mary Magdalen, St July 22 



Mary ad Nives, St., 
dedic. of Church of, 

at Rome Aug. 5 

Mary, B. V., apparition 

of in Spain Aug. 10 

Mary de Cervellione, 

St., V Sept. 19 

Mary Frances, St.,V . . .Oct. 6 

Mary Salome, St Oct. 22 

Mary, St., Handmaid, 

M Nov. 1 

Mary, St., M Dec. 2 

Mary, Mother of God, 
transl. of holy house 

of Dec. 10 

Maseula, St., Stage- 
player, C Mch. 29 

Massylitan, St., M Apr. 9 

Maternus, St., B July 18 

Maternus, St., B Sept. 14 

Matilda, St., Queen... Mch. 14 
Matrona, St., Servant. 

M, Mch. 15 

Matrona, St., M Mch. 20 

Matrona, St., V., M...May 18 
Matronia, St., Hermit.Dec. 14 
Matthew, St., Apostle 

and Evan., M Sept. 21 

Matthew, St, Hermit, 

M Nov. 12 

Matthias, St., B Jan. 30 

Matthias, St., Apostle. 

M Feb. 24 

Maturin, St., C Nov. 1 

Maturus, St., M June 2 

Maur, St., A Jan. 15 

Maur, St., A Jan. 27 

Maura, St., M Feb. 13 

Maura, St., M May 3 

Maura, St., V., M Nov. 30 

Maurice, St., Theban, 
M., and companions . Sep. 22 

Maurili'us, St., B Sept. 13 

Maurinus, St., A., M..June 10 

Mauritius, St., M July 10 

Maurus, St., B Jan. 20 



INDEX. 



441 



Maurus, St., Soldier, 

M Jan. 29 

Maurus, St., D., M July 27 

Maurois, St., M Aug. 1 

Maurus, St., M., and 

companions Aug. 22 

Maurus, St., B., C Nov. 8 

Maurus, St., B., O Nov. 21 

Maurus, St., M Nov. 22 

Maurus, St., M Dec. 3 

Mavilus, St., M Jan. 4 

Maxentius, St., Pr., C.June 26 
Maxenthis, St., M., and 

companions Dec. 12 

Maxima, St., M Men. 26 

Maxima, St., M Apr. 3 

Maxima, St., V May 16 

Maxima, St., V., M....July 30 

Maxima, St., M Sept. 2 

Maxima, St., M Oct. 1 

Maxima, St Oct. 16 

Maximian, St., M Jan. 8 

Maximian, St., B., C..Feb. 21 

Maximian, St., B June 9 

Maximian. St., Holy 

Sleeper, M July 27 

Maximian, St., M Aug. 21 

Maximian, St., B. . . . . .Oct. 3 

Maximilian, St., B Oct. 12 

Maximilian, St., B., M.Oct. 29 

Maximin, St., B June 8 

Maximinus, St., B., C. .May 29 

Maximinus, St., C Dec. 15 

Maximus, St., B., C...Jan. 8 

Maximus, St., B Jan. 15 

Maximus, St., M Jan. 25 

Maximus, St., M Feb. 18 

Maximus, St., M Feb. 18 

Maximus, St., M Apr. 13 

Maximus, St., M Apr. 14 

Maximus, St., M Apr. 15 

Maximus, St., M Apr. 30 

Maximus, St., B., C...May 5 

Maximus, St., M May 11 

Maximus, St., M May 15 

Maximus, St., B May 29 



Maximus, St., B., C..June 10 
Maximus, St., B., O. . .June 25 

Maximus, St., M July 20 

Maximus, St., B Aug. 2 

Maximus, St., Monk, 

M Aug. 13 

Maximus, St., Boy, M.Aiug. 17 

Maximus, St., M Aug. 18 

Maximus, St., C Aug. 20 

Maximus, St., Pr., M. .Aug. 23 

Maximus, St., M Sept. 4 

Maximus, St., M Sept. 15 

Maximus, St., M Sept. 25 

Maximus, St., M Sept. 28 

Maximus, St., D., M...Oct. 20 

Maximus, St., M Oct. 30 

Maximus, St., B., C...Nov. 18 
Maximus, St., Pr., M..Nov. 19 
Maxinnus, St., B., C...NOV. 27 

Maximus, St., M Dec. 2 

Maximus, St., B., C. . .Dec. 27 

Medard, St., B June 8 

Meinard, St., Hermit.. Jan. 21 
Melania the Younger, 

St Dec. 31 

Melanius, St., B., C...Jan. 6 

Melanius, St., B Oct. 22 

Melas, St., B Jan. 16 

Melasippus, St., M Nov. 7 

Melchiades, St., P..... Dec. 10 

Meletius, St., B Feb. 12 

Meletius, St., Officer, 
M., and 252 com- 
panions May 24 

Meletius, St., B., C...Sept. 21 

Meletius, St., B., C Dec. 4 

Meleusippus, St., M...Jan. 17 

Melitina, St., M Sept. 15 

Mellitus, St., B Apr. 24 

Memmius, St., B A>ug. 5 

Memnon, St., Centu- 
rion, M Aug. 20 

Menalippus, St., M...Sept. 2 

Menander, St., M Apr. 28 

Menander, St., M Aug. 1 

Menedemus, St., M Sept. 5 



442 



INDEX. 



Meneleus, St., A July 22 

Meneus, St., M July 24 

Menignus, St., a Dyer, 

M Mch. 15 

Mennas, St., B Aug. 25 

Hennas, St., Soldier 

M Nov. 11 

Mennas, St., Solitary. Nov. 11 

Mennas, St., M Dec. 10 

Menodora, St., V., M. .Sept. 10 

Mercuria, St., M Dec. 12 

Mercurialis, St., B May 23 

Mercury, St., Soldier, 

M Nov. 25 

Mercury, St., Soldier, 

M., and companions. Dec. 10 

Merry, St., Pr Aug. 29 

Merulus, St., Monk Jan. 17 

Metellus, St., M Jan. 24 j 

Methodius, St., B Mch. 9 

Methodius, St., B June 14 1 

Methodius, St., B., M.Sept. 18 

Metran, St., M Jan. 31 

Metrobius, St., M Dec. 24 

Metrodora, St., V., M.Sept. 10 1 
Metrophanes, St.,B.,C.June 4] 

Meuris, St., M Dec. 19 j 

Michseas, St., Prophet. Jan. 15 
Michael, St., Archangel, 

apparition of May 8 

Michael, St., B May 23 

Michael of the Saints, 

St Apr. 10 

Michael, St., Archangel, 

commem. of Sept. 29 

Migdonius, St., M Dec. 23 

Milburge, St., V Feb. 23 

Miles, St., B., M Apr. 22 

Minervinois, St., M Dec. 31 

Minervus, St., M Aug. 23 

Minias, St., Soldier, M.Oct. 25 

Mirocles, St., B., C Dec. 3 

Misael, St., Youth, M..Dec. 16 

Mitrius, St., M Nov. 13 

Modesta, St., M Mch. 13 

Modesta, St., M Mch. 13 



Modesta, St., V Nov. 4 

Modestus, St., M Jan. 12 

Modestus, St., D., M..Feb. 12 

Modestus, St., M Feb. 12 

Modestus, St., Holy&mdash;In- 
fant Feb. 12 

Modestus, St., B., C...Feb. 24 

Modestus, St., M June 15 

Modestus, St., M Nov. 10 

Modoalbus, St., B May 12 

Monas, St., B Oct. 12 

Monegundes, St Joily 2 

Monica, St May 4 

Monitor, St., B., C Nov. 10 

Montanus, St., M., and 

companions Feb. 24 

Montanus, St., Pr., M.Mch. 26 
Montanus, St., Soldier, 

M. June 17 

Moses, St., B Feb. 7 

Moses, St., an Ethiopian, 

Anchoret Aug. 28 

Moses, St., Lawgiver 

and Prophet Sept. 4 

Moses, St., M Nov. 25 

Moseus, St., M Jan. 18 

Movable Feasts Page xi 

Moysetes, St., M Dec. 18 

Mucian, St., M July 3 

Mucius, St., D., M Apr. 22 

Muritta, St., C Joily 13 

Musonius, St., M Jan. 24 

Mustiola, St., Matron, 

M July 3 

Myron, St., B Aug. 8 

Myron, St., Pr., M....Aug. 17 
Myrops, St., M July 13 

N. 

Nabor, St., Sold'r, M..June 12 

Nabor, St., M July 10 

Nabor, St., M July 12 

Nahum, St., Prophet. .Dec. 1 
Name, Most, Holy, of 
the B. V. Mary Sept. 12 



INDEX. 



443 



Namphanion, St., M., 

and his companions. July 4 

Narcissus, St., M Jan. 2 

Narcissus, St., B., M..Mch. 18 

Narcissus, St., M Sept. 17 

Narcissus, St., B Oct. 29 

Narcissus, St., M Oct. 31 

Narnus, St., B Aug. 27 

Narses, St., M Mch. 27 

Narseus, St., M July 15 

Narzales, St., M July 17 

Natalia, St., M July 27 

Natalia, St Dec. 1 

Nativity of the B. V. 

Mary Sept. 8 

Nativity of Our Lord. Dec. 25 

Navalis, St., M Dec. 16 

Nazarius, St., Soldier, 

M June 12 

Nazarius, St., M. (at 

Milan) July 28 

Nemesius, St., M Feb. 20 

Nemesian, St., B., M., 

and others Sept. 10 

Nemesius, St., M July 18 

Nemesius, St., C Aug. 1 

Nemesius, St., D., M. . .Oct. 31 

Nemesius, St., M Dec. 19 

Nemorius, St., D., M., 

and companions . . . Sept. 7 

Neomisia, St., V Sept. 25 

Neon, St., M Apr. 24 

Neon, St., M Aug. 23 

Neon, St., M Sept. 28 

Neon, St., M Dec. 2 

Neophytus, St., M Jan. 20 

Neopolus, St., M May 2 

Neoterius, St., M Sept. 8 

Nereois, St., M May 12 

Nereus, St., M Oct. 16 

Nersas, St., B., M., and 

companions Nov. 20 

Nestabus, St., M Sept. 8 

Nestor, St., B., M Feb. 26 

Nestor, St., B., M Mch. 4 

Nestor, St., M Sept. 8 



Nestor, St., M Oct. 8 

Nicaeas, St., B June 22 

Nicaeas, St., M Aug. 29 

Nicander, St., M Mch. 15 

Nicander, St., M June 17 

Nicander, St., B., M. . .Nov. 4 

Nicander, St., M Nov. 7 

Nicanor, St., D., M Jan. 10 

Nicanor, St., M June 5 

Nicasius, St., B., M....Oct. 11 
Nicasius, St., B., M.. 

and companions Dec. 

Nicephorus, St., M Feb. 9 

Nicephorus, St., M Feb. 25 

Nicephomis, St., M Mch. 1 

Nicephorus, St., B., M.Mcb. 13 

Niceras, St., V Dec. 27 

Niceta, St., M July 24 

Nicetas, St., B Jan. 7 

Nicetas, St., B., M Mch. 20 

Nicetas, St., A Apr. 3 

Nicetas, St., M Sept. 15 

Nicetius, St., B Dec. 5 

Nicetus, St., B May 5 

Nicholas, St., B., C., 

translation of May 9 

Nicholas Albergati, St., 

B., Card. May 1U 

Nicholas Peregrinus, 

St., C !..June 2 

Nicholas, St., P Nov. 13 

Nicholas, St., B., C Dec. 6 

Nicodemus, St Aug. 3 

Nicolas, St., C Sept. 10 

Nicolas, St., M Oct. 13 

Nicomedes, St., Pr., M.Sept. 15 
Nicon, St., M., and 99 

others Mch. 23 

Nicon, St., M Sept. 28 

Nicon, St., Monk Nov. 26 

Nicostratus, St., Tri- 
bune, M., and others. May 21 

Nicostratus, St., M July 5 

Nicostratus, St., Ass y t 

Prefect, M July 7 

Nicostratus, St., M Nov. 8 



444 



INDEX. 



Nilainmon, St., Ancho- 
ret Jan. 6 

Nilnis. St., B., M Feb. 20 

Nilus, St., B., M Sept. 19 

Nilus, St., A Sept. 26 

Nilus, St., A Nov. 12 

Nimmia, St., M Aug. 12 

Nimphodora, St., M...Mch. 13 

Ninian, St., B., C Sept. 16 

Nizier, St., B Apr. 2 

Nominanda, St., M Dec. 31 

Nonna, St .Aug. 5 

Nonnus, St., B Dec. 2 

Nonnosus, St., A Sept. 2 

Norbert, St., B June 6 

Novatus. St June 20 

Numerian, St., B., C..July 5 
Numidicus, St., Pr....Aug. 9 

N'unilo, St., V., M Oct. 22 

Nympha, St., V., M....Nov. 10 
Nymphodora, St., V., 

M Sept. 10 

O. 

Obdulia, St., V Sept. 5 

Oceanus, St., M Sept. 4 

Octavian, St., Arch-D.. 

M., and many others. Mch. 22 
Octavius, St., Soldier. 

M. .: Nov. 20 

Odilo. St., A Jan. 1 

Odo, St., B July 7 

Odo. St.. A Nov. 18 

Olaff, St., King, M July 29 

Oliva, St., V June 3 

Ollegarius, St., Arch- 
bishop Mch. 6 

Olyinpiades, St., M Apr. 15 

Olympiades, St., 

Widow Dec. 17 

Olympias, St., Ex-con- 
sul, M Dec. 1 

Olympius, St., B., C...June 12 
Olympius, St., M July 26 



Olympius, St., Tribune. 

M Oct. 31 

Oiner, St., B Sept. 9 

Onesimus, St., B., M...Feb. 16 
Onesiphorus, St., M. . .Sept. 6 
Onuphrius, St., Ancho- 
ret June 12 

Optatian, St., B July 14 

Optatus, St., M Apr. 16 

Optatus, St., B June 4 

Optatus, St., B., C Aug. 31 

Orentius, St., M May 1 

Orentius, St., Soldier, 

M June 24 

Orestes, St., M Nov. 9 

Orestes, St., M Dec. 13 

Orioulus, St., M., and 

companions Nov. 18 

Orientius, St., B May 1 

Orontius, St., M Jan. 22 

Osee, St., Prophet July 4 

Osmund, St., B., C Dec. 4 

Ostian, St., Pr., C June 30 

Oswald, St., King Aug. 5 

Othilia, St., Abbess ... Dec. 13 

Othmar, St., A Nov. 16 

Otho, St., B July 2 

Otto, St., M Jan. 16 

Our Lady of Lourdes. . Feb. 11 
Owen, St., B., C Aug. 24 



P. 



Pachomius, St., A May 14 

Pachomius, St., B., M.Nov. 26 

Pacian, St., B Mch. 9 

Pacificus of St. Sever- 
in, St., C Sept. 25 

Palaemon, St., A Jan. 11 

Palatias, St., M Oct. 8 

Palatinus, St., M May 30 

Palladia, St., M., and 

children May 24 

Palmatius, St., Consul, 
M., with wife, sons, 

and 42 of household. May 10 



INDEX. 



445 



Palmatius, St., M., and 
his companions Oct 

Pammachius, St., Pr. .Aug. 

Pamphilus, St., B Apr. 

Pamphilus, St., Pr., M., 
and others June 

Pamphilus, St., B Sept. 

Pamphilus, St., M Sept. 

Pancharius, St., M...Mch. 

Pancratius, St., B., M.Apr. 

Pancratius, St., M May 

Pantsenus, St July 

Pantagapes, St., M . . . Sept. 

Pantagathus, St., B...Apr. 

Pantaleemon. St., M . . July 

Pantaleon, St., Physi- 
cian, M July 

Paphnutius, St., M Apr. 

Paphnutius, St., B Sept. 

Paphnutius, St., M.. 
and companions Sept. 

Papias, St., Sold'r, M..Jan. 

Papias, St., B Feb. 

Papias, St., M Feb. 

Papias, St., M Feb. 

Papias, St., M Nov. 

Papinian, St., B., M...NOV. 

Papius, St., M June 

Papius, St., M July 

Papylus, St., D., M....Apr. 

Paramon, St., M., and 
375 companions Nov. 

Parasceres, St., M Mch. 

Paris, St., B Aug. 

Parisius, St., Monk, 
C June 

Parmenas, St., D., M..Jan. 

Parmenius, St., Pr., M.Apr. 

Parthnius, St, M May 

Pascal, St May 

Paschal, St., P May 

Paschasius, St., B Feb. 

Paschasius, St., D., C.May 

Paschasius, St., M Nov. 

Pasicrates, St., M., and 
others May 



Pastor, St., M., and 
5 companions Mch. 29 

30 Pastor, St., B Mch. 30 

28 Pastor, St., Pr July 26 

Pastor, St., Boy, M...Aug. 6 

1 Patapius, St., Solitary.Dec. 8 
7 Paterius, St., B Feb. 21 

21 Patermuthius, St., M . . July 9 
19 Paternian, St., B July 12 

3 Paternus, St., B Apr. 16 

12 j Paternus, St., M Aug. 21 

7 Paternus, St., B., M..Sept 23 

2 Paternus, St., M Nov. 12 

17 Patience, St., M May 1 

27 Patiens, St., B Jan. 8 

Patiens, St., B Sept. 11 

27 Patricia, St., V Aug. 25 

19 Patrick, St., B., C Mch. 17 

11 Patrick, St., A Aug. 24 

Patritia, St., M Mch. 13 

24 Patritius, St., B., M...Apr. 28 

29 Patrobas, St Nov. 4 

22 Patroclus, St., M Jan. 21 

25 Paul, St., First Her- 

26 mit Jan. 15 

2 Paul, St., M ....Jan. 19 

28 Paul, St, Apostle, M.. 

28 conversion of Jan. 25 

7 Paul, St., B Feb. 1 

13 Paul, St., M Feb. 8 

Paul, St., B Feb. 8 

21) Paul, St., M Mch. 2 

20 Paul, St., B Mch. 7 

5 Paul, St., surnamed the 

Simpl Mch. 7 

11 'Paul, St, M Mch. 10 

23! Paul, St., M Mch. 17 

22 j Paul, St., M., and 

19 others Mch. 20 

17 Paul, St., B Mch. 22 

14 Paul, St, Monk, M...Apr. 17 
22 ! Paul of the Cross, St, 

31 C Apr. 28 

13 Paul, St., M May 15 

l Paul, St., M May 17 

25 Pa<ul, St., M May 28 



446 



INDEX. 



Paul, St., M June 1 

Paul, St., Pr., M June 1 

Paul, St., Boy, M June 3 

Paul, St., B., M June 7 

Paul, St., M June 20 

Paul, St., M .June 26 

Paul, St., P., C June 28 

Paul, $t, Apostle, M..June 29 
Paul, St., Apostle, M., 

commemoration of.. June 30 
Paul, St., M., and a 

boy July 3 

Paul, St., D., M July 20 

Paul, St., M July 25 

Paul, St., M Aug. 17 

Paul, St., M Aug. 29 

Paul, St., M Sept. 25 

Paul, St., M Oct. 3 

Paml, St., M Dec. 19 

Paula, St., Widow, M.Jan. 26 

Paula, St., V., M June 3 

Paula, St., V., M June 18 

Paula, St., M July 20 

Paula, St., V., M Aug. 10 

Paulillus, St., Boy, M.Nov. 13 

Paulillus, St., M Dec. 19 

Paulina, St., M June 6 

Paulina, St., M Dec. 2 

Paulina, St., M Dec. 31 

Panlinus, St., B., C...Apr. 29 

Paulinus, St., M May 4 

Paulinus, St., M May 26 

Paulinus, St., B., C...June 22 
Paulinus, St., B., M., 

and companions July 12 

Paulinus, St., B., M...A"ug. 31 

Paulinus, St., B Oct. 10 

Paulinus, St., B Oct. 10 

Paulus, St., M Dec. 24 

Pausides, St., M Mch. 24 

Pausilippus, St., M...Apr. 15 

Pegasius, St., M Nov. 2 

Pelagia, St., M Mch. 23 

Pelagia, St., V., M. . . .June 9 
Pelagia, St., M July 11 



Pelagia, St., surnamed 

the Penitent Oct. 8 

Pelagia, St., V., M Oct. 19 

Pelagian, St., V., M May 4 

Pelaginis, St., B Mch. 25 

Pelagius, St., a Youth, 

M June 26 

Pelagius, St., M Aug. 28 

Peleus, St., B., M Feb. 20 

Peleus, St., B., M., and 
others of the cler- 
gy Sept. 19 

Peleusius, St., Pr., M..Apr. 7 

Pelinus, St., B., M Dec. 5 

Peregrinus, St May 1 

Peregrinus, St., M May 5 

Peregrinus, St., B., M.May 16 
Peregrinus, St., B., M.June 13 

Peregrinois, St., M June 17 

Peregrinus, St., M July 7 

Peregrinus, St., Pr July 28 

Peregrinus, St., M Aug. 25 

Perfect, St., Pr., M...Apr. 18 
Pergentinus, St., M...June 3 
Perpetua, St., M..Mch. 6 & 7 

Perpetua, St Aug. 4 

Perpetuus, St., B Apr. 8 

Perseveranda, St., V . . June 26 

Peter, St., M Jan. 3 

Peter, St., B Jan. 9 

Peter Urseolus (Orsini), 

St., Monk, C Jan. 10 

Peter, St., M Jan. 11 

Peter, St., M Jan. 16 

Peter, St., Apostle, 

Chair of, at Rome.. Jan. 18 
Peter, Nolasco, St. C..Jan. 31 
Peter, St., B., Card. . . .Feb. 8 
Peter Mavimenois, St., 

M Feb. 21 

Peter, St., Apostle, 

Chair of, at Antioch.Feb. 22 
Peter, St, B., Card... Feb. 23 

Peter, St., C Mch. 11 

Peter, St, M Mch. 12 

Peter, St, M Mch. 14 



INDEX. 



447 



Peter, St., M Mch. 26 

Peter, St., D., M Apr. 17 

Peter, St., B., M Apr. 26 

Peter Armengaudius, 

St Apr. 27 

Peter, St., M Apr. 29 

Peter, St., Monk, M...Apr. 30 

Peter, St., B May 7 

Peter, St., B May 8 

Peter Regalati, St., C.May 13 

Peter, St., M May 15 

Peter of Moroni, St. 
(Pope Celestin V.), 

Anchoret May 19 

Peter, St., Exorcist, M.June 2 

Peter, St., B., M June 7 

Peter, St., Apostle, M.June 29 
Peter Fourier, St., Regu- 
lar Canon July 7 

Peter, St., M Aug. 1 

Peter, St., B Aug. 3 

Peter ad Vincula, St., 

dedic. of Church of. Aug. 1 
Peter, St., M., and 

others Aug. 7 

Peter, St, M Aug. 27 

Peter, St., C Anig. 30 

Peter Claver, St., C..Sept. 9 

Peter, St, B Sept. 10 

Peter of Arbues, St., 

M Sept 17 

Peter, St, M Sept. 23 

Peter, St, M Oct. 3 

Peter, St, B., M Oct. 4 

Peter, St, M Oct. 8 

Peter of Alcantara, St., 

C Oct. 19 

Peter Paschasius, St., 

B., M., festival of. ..Oct. 23 

Peter, St, M Oct. 25 

Peter and Paul, SS., 
dedication of Basili- 
cas of Nov. 18 

Peter, St., B.. M Nov. 26 

Peter, St., Monk, M..Nov. 28 



Peter, St., B., surnamed 
Chrysologus, festival 

of ..Dec. 4 

Peter, St., M., and 

others Dec. 9 

Petronilla, St, V., M..May 31 
Petronius, St., B., C..Sept. 6 
Petronius, St., B., C...Oct 4 
Pharnacius, St., Sol- 
dier, M Jnme 24 

Philadelphus, St, M..May 10 
Philadelphus, St., M..Sept. 2 
Philseas, St., B., M., 

and others Feb. 4 

Philappian, St, M., and 

others Jan. 30 

Philastrius, St, B July 18 

Phileas, St, B., M Nov. 26 

Philemon, St., M Mch. 8 

Philemon, St., M Mch. 21 

Philemon, St., M Nov. 22 

Philetus, St., Senator, 

M Mch. 27 

Philibert, St, A Aug. 20 

Philibert, St, M Aug. 22 

Philip, St, B Apr. 11 

Philip, St., Apostle, M.May 1 

Philip Argyrio, St May 12 

Philip Neri, St May 26 

Philip, St, D June 6 

Philip, St, M June 10 

Philip, St, M., and 

others July 15 

Philip, St., M Aug. 17 

Philip Beniti, St, C..Aug. 2-H 

Philip, St, M Sept. 2 

Philip, St., M Sept. 13 

Philip, St, B., M Oct. 22 

Philip, St., B., M Oct. 22 

Philippa, St., M Sept 20 

Philo, St, D Apr. 25 

Philogonius, St., Law- 
yer, B Dec. 20 

Philologus, St Nov. 4 

Philomena, St., V July 5 

Philomenus, St, M...NOV. 14 



448 



INDEX. 



Philomenus, St., M...Nov. 29 

Philonilla, St Oct. 11 

Fhiloromus, St., Tri- 
bune, M Feb. 4 

Philoterus, St., M May 19 

Philotheus, St., M Nov. 5 

Phlegon, St Apr. 8 

Phocas, St., M Mch. 5 

Phocas, St., B., M.....July 14 

Phoebe, St Sept. 7 

Photides, St., M Mch. 20 

Photina, St., Samaritan, 

M Mch. 20 

Photmiis, St., B., M., 

and others June 2 

Photinus, St., M......Aug. 12 

Photius, St., M Mch. 4 

Photius, St., M Mch. 20 

Pia, St., M Jan. 19 

Piaton, St., Pr., M Oct. 1 

Pienta, St., V., M Oct. 11 

Pierius, St., Pr Nov. 4 

Pigmenius, St., Pr., M.Mch. 24 

Pinian, St., Monk Dec. 31 

Pinytus, St., B Oct. 10 

Pionius, St., Pr., M....Feb. 1 

Piperion, St., M Mch. 11 

Pirminus, St., B Nov. 3 

Pius V., St., P May 5 

Pius, St., P., M July 11 

Placidia, St., V Oct. 11 

Placidus, St., M July 11 

Placidois, St., Monk, M.Oct. 5 

Placidus, St., M Oct. 11 

Plato, St., Monk Apr. 4 

Plato, St., M July 22 

Platonides, St., M., and 

20 others Apr. 6 

Plautilla, St May 20 

Plautus, St., M Sept. 29 

Plutarch, St., Catechu- 
men, M June 28 

Podius, St., B., C May 28 

Premon, St., Anchoret . Aug. 27 

Polieuctus, St., M May 21 

Polius, St., D., M May 21 



Pollio, St., M Apr. 28 

Polyseuus, St., M Aug. 18 

Polyan, St., M Sept. 10 

Polycarp, St., B., M., 

and 12 others Jan. 26 

Polycarp, St., Pr., M..Feb. 23 

Polycarp, St., M Dec. 7 

Polychronius, St., B., 

M Feb. 17 

Polychronius, St., Pr., 

M Dec. 6 

Polyenus, St., M Apr. 28 

Polyeuctus, St., M Feb. 13 

Polyxena, St Sept. 23 

Pompeius, St., M July 7 

Pompey, St., M Apr. 10 

Pompey, St., B Dec. 14 

Pomponius, St., B May 14 

Pomposa, St., V., M . . Sept. 19 

Pons, St., M May 14 

Pontian, St., M Jan. 19 

Pontian, St., M Aug. 25 

Pontian, St., P., M Nov. 19 

Pontian, St., M., and 4 

others Dec. 2 

Pontian, St., M + ..Dec. 11 

Pontian, St., M Dec. 31 

Ponticus, St., M June 2 

Pontius, St., D Mch. 8 

Poppo, St., A Jan. 25 

Porcarius, St., A., M., 

and 500 monks Aug. 12 

Porphyrius, St., Come- 
dian, M Sept. 15 

Porphyry, St., Servant. 

M Feb. 16 

Porphy, St., B Feb. 26 

Porphyry, St., M May 4 

Porphyry, St Aug. 20 

Porphyry, St., M Nov. 4 

Portian, St., A Nov. 24 

Possidius, St., B May 16 

Potamia, St., M Dec. 5 

Potamicena, St., V.. M.June 28 
Potamon, St., B., M. . .May 18 
Potentian, St., M Dec. 31 



INDEX. 



449 



Pothamius, St., M.... Feb. 20 

Potitus, St., M Jan. 13 

Prsepedigna, St., M.'. ..Feb. 18 

Prsesidius, St., B., M.Sept. 6 
Frsetextatus, St., B., 

M Feb. 24 

Praetextatus, St., M...Dec. 11 

Pragmatius, St., B., C.Nov. 22 

Praxedes, St., V July 21 

Presentation of the B. 
V. Mary in the Tem- 
ple Nov. 21 

Priamus, St., M May 28 

Philidian, St., M Jan. 24 

Primian, St., M Dec. 29 

Primitiva, St,. M Feb. 24 

Primitiva, St., V., M..July 23 

Primitivus, St., M Apr. 16 

Primitivus, St., M Jome 10 

Primitivus, St., M....' July 18 

Frimitivus, St., M Nov. 27 

Primitivus, St., M Dec. 9 

Primus, St., M Jan. 3 

Primus, St., M Feb. 9 

Primus, St., M June 9 

Primus, St., M Oct. 2 

Principius, St., B Sept. 25 

Prisca, St., V., M Jan. 18 

Priscian, St., M Oct. 12 

Priscian, St., M Oct. 14 

Priscilla, St Jan. 16 

Priscilla, St July 8 

Priscus, St., Fr., M Jan. 4 

Priscus, St., M Men. 28 

Priscus, St., M., and 

others May 26 

Prisous, St., M Sept. 1 

Priscus, St., B Sept. 1 

Priscus, St., M Sept. 20 

Priscus, St., M Oct. 1 

Privatus, St., B., M...Aug. 21 

Privatus, St., M Sept. 20 

Privatus, St., M Sept. 28 

Probus, St., B Jan. 12 

+ Probus, St., B Men. 15 

Probus, St., M Oct. 11 



Probus, St., B Nov. 10 

Probus, St., M Nov. 13 

Processus, St., M July 2 

Prochorus, St., D., M..Apr. 9 

Prockis, St., M July 12 

Proclus, St., B Oct. 24 

Procopius, St., C Feb. 27 

Procopius, St., M July 8 

Proculus, St., M Feb. 14 

Proculus, St., B., M...Apr. 14 

Proculus, St., M June 1 

Proculus, St., M Aug. 18 

Frocuhis, St., M Nov. 4 

Proculus, St., B., M...Dec. 1 

Proculus, St., B Dec. 9 

Projectus, St., M Jan. 24 

Projectus, St., B., M..Jan. 25 
Prosdocimus, St., B...Nov. 6 
Prosper of Aquitaine, 

St., B June 25 

Prosper, St., B July 29 

Protasius, St., M June 19 

Protasius, St., M Aug. 4 

Protasiois, St., B Nov. 24 

Protogenes, St., B May 6 

Protolicus, St., M Feb. 14 

Frotus, St., M Sept. 11 

Protus, St., Pr., M....Oct. 25 
Prudentius, St., B., M.Apr. 28 
Ptolemy, St., B., M...AUg. 24 

Ptolemy, St., M Oct. 19 

Ptolemy, St., Sol'r, M.Dec. 20 

Publia, St., Abbess Oct. 9 

Publius, St., B., M Jan. 21 

Publius, St., M., and 

others Feb. 19 

Publius, St., M Apr. 16 

Publius, St., M Nov. 2 

Publius, St., B., M Nov. 12 

Fudens, St., Senator.. May 19 

Pudentiana, St., V May 19 

Pulcheria, St., Empress, 

V Sept. 10 

Pupulus, St., M Feb. 28 

Purification of the B. 

V. Mary Feb. 2 



450 



INDEX. 



Pusicius, Chief of Ar- 
tificers, M.,and daugh- 
ter Apr. 21 

Q. 

Quadragesimus, St., 

Subdeacon Oct. 26 

Quadrafcus, St., M., and 

others Men. 26 

Quadratus, St., M May 7 

Quadratus, St May 26 

Quadratus, St., M May 26 

Quadratus, St., B Aug. 21 

Quartilla, St., M Mch. 19 

Quartus, St., M May 10 

Quartus, St., M Aoig. 6 

Quartus, St Nov. 3 

Quartus, St., M Dec. 18 

Quinctian, St., M Apr. 1 

Quinctian, St., B June 14 

Quinctian, St., B Nov. 13 

Quinctian, St., M Dec. 31 

Quinctilian, St., M Apr. 13 

Quinctilian, St., M Apr. 16 

Quinctilis, St., B., M. .Mch. 8 

Quinctilla, St., M Mch. 19 

Qminctinus, St., Sena- 
tor, M Oct. 31 

Quinctius, St., M Sept. 5 

Quinctus, St., M Jan. 4 

Quinctus, St., M., and 

others Mch. 19 

Quinctus, St., M May 10 

Quinctus, St., M Oct. 29 

Quinctus, St., M., and 

others Dec. 18 

Quinidius, St., B Feb. 15 

Quintian, St., M May 23 

Quiriacus, St., M., and 

others Aug. 12 

Quiriacus, St., B., M., 

and companions Aug. 23 

Quiriacus, St., Ancho- 
ret Sept. 29 

Quiricus, St., M June 16 



Quirinus, St., M Mch. 25 

Quirinus, St., Tribune, 

M Mch. 30 

Quirimis, St., M June 4 

Quirinus, St., B., M. . .June 4 
Quirinus, St., Pr., M..Oct. 11 
Quiteria, St., V., M...May 22 
Quodvultdeus, St., B..Oct. 26 

R. 

Radegundes, St., 

Queen Aug. 13 

Raineldes, St.. V., M 

and companions. . . .July 16 

Rainerius, St., C J'une 17 

Rainerius, St., B Dec. 30 

Ranulph, St., M May 27 

Rasyphus, St., M July 23 

Raymond of Pennafort, 

St., C Feb. 13 

Raymond Nonnatus, 

St., Card., C Aug. 31 

Reatrus, St., M Jan. 23 

Redempta, St., V July 23 

Redeniptus, St., B....Apr. 8 

Regina, St., V., M Sept. 7 

Regulus, St., B Mch. 30 

Regulus, St., M Sept. 1 

Rembert, St., B Feb. 4 

Remedius, St., B Feb. 3 

Remegras, St., B., C., 

translation of Oct. 1 

Reparata, St., V., M...Oct. 8 

Respicius, St., M Nov. 10 

Restituta, St., V., M..May 17 
Restituta, St., V., M..May 27 

Restitutus, St., M May 29 

Restitutus, St., M June 10 

Restitutus, St., M., and 

others Aug. 23 

Restitutus, St., B., M.Dec. 9 
Reverian, St., B., M., 

and others June 1 

Revocata, St., M Feb. 6 

Revocatus, St., M Jan. 9 



INDEX. 



451 



Revocafeus, St, M . . . . Mcb. 7 
Rhais, St, Catechu- 
men, M June 28 

Richard, St., King Feb. 7 

Richard, St., B Apr. 3 

Richard, St., B June 9 

Richarius, St., Pr., C.Apr. 26 
Rigobertus, St., B., C..Jan. 4 
Ripsimis, St., V., M., 

and companions Sept. 29 
Rita, St., Widow, Nun.May 22 
Robbers, Holy, Seven, 

M. M Apr. 20 

Robert, St., C Apr. 17 

Robert, St., A Apr. 29 

Robert, St., A June 7 

Robustian, St., M May 24 

Robustian, St., M.....Aug. 31 

Roch, St., C Aug. 16 

Rodopian, St., M May 3 

Rogation, St., M May 24 

Rogation, St., Pr., M . . Oct. 26 

Rogation, St., M Dec. 28 

Rogatus, St., M Jan. 12 

Rogatus, St Mch. 8 

Rogatus, St Mch. 8 

Rogatus, St., M., and 

others Mch. 28 

Rogatus, St., M June 10 

Rogatus, St., Monk, M.Aug. 17 

Rogatus, St., M Dec. 1 

Rogellus, St., M Sept 16 

Romana, St., V Feb. 23 

Romanus, St., A Feb. 28 

Romanus, St., A May 22 

Romanus, St., Soldier, 

M Aug. 9 

Romanus, St., B., M..Aug. 24 
Romanus, St., B., M...Oct. 6 

Romanus, St., B Oct. 23 

Romanus, St., M Nov. 18 

Romanus, St., Pr Nov. 24 

Romaricus, St., A Dec. 8 

Rom-uald, St., A Feb. 7 

Romula, St., V July 23 

Romulus, St., M Feb. 17 



Romulus, St., M Mch. 24 

Romulus, St., M Mch. 24 

Romulus, St., B., M.. 

and others July 6 

Romulus, St., Prefect, 

M Sept. 5 

Rosalia, St., V., finding 

body of July 15 

Rosalia, St., V., birth- 
day of Sept. 4 

Rosary, Most Holy.... Oct. 7 
Rose of St. Mary, St., 

V Aug. 30 

Rose, St., V Sept. 4 

Rosras, St Sept. 1 

Rosula, St., M Sept. 14 

Rudericus, St, Pr Mch. 13 

Rufflllus, St., B July 18 

Rufina. St, V., M July 10 

Rufina, St., V., M July 19 

Rufina, St Aug. 31 

Rufinian, St, M Sept 9 

Rufinus, St., M Feb. 28 

Rufinus, St., M Apr. 7 

Rufinus, St., M June 14 

Rufinus, St, M June 21 

Rufinus, St, M July 30 

Rufinus, St., B., M., and 

companions Aug. 11 

Rufinus, St, C Aug. 19 

Riufinus, St., B., C Aug. 26 

Rufinus, St., Boy, M . . Sept. 4 

Rufinus, St, M Sept 9 

Rufinus, St., M., and 

companions Nov. 16 

Rufus, St, M Apr. 19 

Rufus, St., M Aug. 1 

Rufus, St, M Aug. 27 

Rufus, St, B., M Aug. 27 

Rufus, St, M Sept 25 

Rufus, St., B., C Nov. 7 

Rufus, St, B Nov. 12 

Rufus, St Nov. 21 

Rufus, St, M., and 

family Nov. 28 

Rufus, St, M Dec. 18 



452 



INDEX. 



Rumold, St., B., M July 1 

Rupert, St., B., O Men. 27 

Rustica, St., M Dec. 31 

Rusticus, St., M Aug. 9 

Rusticus, St., Subdea- 

con, M Aug. 17 

Rusticus, St., B., G...Sept. 24 
Rusticus, St., Fr., M..Oct. 9 

Rusticus, St., B Oct. 14 

Rustious, St., B., C Oct. 26 

Rutilius, St., M Aug. 2 

Rutilius, St., M., and 

companions June 4 

Rutulus, St., M Feb. 18 



S. 



Sabas, St., M., and 

others Apr. 12 

Sabas, St., Military Of- 
ficer, M Apr. 24 

Sabas, St., A Dec. 5 

Sabbatius, St., M Sept. 19 

Sabel, St., M June 17 

Sabina, St., M Aug. 29 

Sabina, St., V ...Aug. 29 

Sabina, St., M Oct. 27 

Sabinian, St., M Jan. 29 

Sabinian, St.,Monk, M.June 7 

Sabinian, St., M Sept. 25 

Sabinian, St., B., M...Dec. 31 

Sabinois, St., M Jan. 25 

Sabinus, St., B., C....Feb. 9 

Sabinus, St., M Men. 13 

Sabinus, St., C July 11 

Sabinus, St., M., and 

others July 20 

Sabinus, St., B Dec. tl 

Sabinus, St., B., M Dec. 30 

Sacerdos, St., B May 4 

Sacerdos, St., B May 5 

Sacerdos, St., B Sept. 12 

Sadoth, St., B., M., and 

128 others Feb. 20 

Sagar, St., B., M Oct. 6 

Salaberga, St., Abbess. Sept. 22 



Sallustia, St., M Sept. 14 

Sallustian, St., C June 8 

Salomon, St., B., C . . . Sept. 28 
Salutaris, St., Arch- 
deacon, C July 13 

Salvinus, St., B Oct. 12 

Salvius, St., M Jan. 11 

Salvius, St., B., M Jan. 11 

Salvius, St., B., M....June 26 

Salvius, St., B., C Sept. 10 

Samonas, St., M Nov. 15 

Sampson, St., Pr June 27 

Sampson, St., B., C...July 28 

Samuel, St., M Feb. 16 

Samuel, St., Prophet. Aug. 20 

Samuel, St., M Oct. 13 

Sancius, St., Youth, M.June 5 

Sanctinus, St., B Sept. 22 

Sanctus, St., D., M...June 2 

Sandalus, St., M Sept. 3 

Sarbelius, St., M Jan. 29 

Sarmata, St., M Oct. 11 

Saturian, St., M Oct. 16 

Saturnina, St., V., M. .June 4 

Saturninus, St., M Jan. 19 

Saturninus, St., M Jan. 31 

Saturninus, St., M Feb. 6 

Saturninus, St., Pr.,M.Feb. 11 

Saturninus, St., M Feb. 15 

Saturninus, St., M Mch. 7 

Saturninus, St., M., and 

9 others Mch. 22 

Saturninus, St., B., C.Apr. 7 
Saturninus, St., M (4 

of this name) Apr. 16 

Saturninus, St., M May 2 

Saturninus, St., M July 7 

Saturninus, St., M Aug. 22 

Saturnimis, St., M Oct. 6 

Saturninus, St Oct. 14 

Saturninus, St., M., and 

others Oct. 16 

Saturninus, St., M Oct. 30 

Saturninus, St., M Nov. 27 

Saturninus, St., M Nov. 29 

Saturninus, St., B., M.Nov. 29 



INDEX. 



453 



Saturninus, St., M Dec. 15 

Sat'urninus, St., M Dec. 23 

Saturninus, St., M Dec. 29 

Saturus, St., Steward, 

C Men. 29 

Satyrus, St., M Jan. 12 

Satyrus, St., C Sept. 17 

Saula, St., V., M., and 

others Oct. 20 

Savina, St Jan. 30 

Savinus, St., M July 11 

Saviour, Our, dedic. of 

the Basilica of at 

Rome Nov. 9 

Savious, Our, commem. 

of the Image of Nov. 9 

Scholastica, St., V Feb. 10 

Scubiculms,, St., D., M.Oct. 11 

Sebastia, St., M July 4 

Sebastian, St., M Jan. 20 

Sebastian, St., M.,....Feb. 8 
Sebastian, St., Military 

Officer, M Men. 20 

Sebastiana, St., M Sept. 10 

Sebbi, St., King Aug. 29 

Secunda, St., V., M...July 10 

Secunda, St., M July 17 

Secunda, St., V., M...July 30 
Secundarius, St., M...Oct. 2 

Socundian, St., M Feb. 17 I 

Secundian, St., M Aug. 9 

Seeundilla, St., M Mch. 2 

Secundina, St., V., M..Jan. 15 

Secundinus, St., M Feb. 18 

Secundinus, St., M Feb. 21 

Secundinus, St., B., M.Apr. 29 
Secundinus, St., M... May 21 
Secundinus, St., B., M.July 1 

Secundinus, St Sept. 1 

Secundimis, St., M Mch. 7 

Secundus, St., M Jan. 9 

Secundus, St., M Mch. 24 

Secundus, St., M Mch. 29 

Secundus, St., B May 15 

Secundus, St., Pr., M., 

and others May 21 



Secundus, St., M June 1 

Secundois, St., M July 31 

Secundus, St., M Aug. 7 

Secundus, St., M Aug. 26 

Secundus, St., M Nov. 15 

Secundus, St., M Dec. 19 

Secundus, St., M Dec. 19 

Secundus, St., M Dec. 29 

Securus, St., M Dec. 2 

Sedopha, St., M July 5 

Selesius, St., M Sept. 12 

Seleucus, St., M Feb. 16 

Seleucus, St., C Mch. 24 

Senator, St., B May 28 

Senator, St Sept. 26 

Sennen, St., M July 30 

Septimus, St., Monk, 

M Aug. 17 

Septimus, St., Lector, 

M Oct. 24 

Sequanus, St., Pr., C.Sept. 19 

Seraphina, St July 29 

Seraphinus, St., O Oct. 12 

Serapia, St., V., M Sept. 3 

Serapion, St., M Feb. 25 

Serapion, St., M Feb. 28 

Serapion, St., Anchoret, 

B Mch. 21 

Serapion, St., Lector, 

M Mch. 26 

Serapion, St., M July 13 

Serapion, St., Holy 

Sleeper, M. July 27 

Serapion, St., M Aug. 18 

Serapion, St., M Aug. 27 

Serapion, St., M Sept. 12 

Serapion, St., B Oct. 30 

Serapion, St., M Nov. 14 

Serapion, St., M Nov. 14 

Serena, St Aug. 16 

Serenus, St., Catechu- 
men, M June 28 

Serenus, St., Catechu- 
men, M June 28 

Sergius, St., M Feb. 24 

Sergius, St., M July 27 



454 



INDEX. 



Sergius, St., P., C Sept. 9 

Sergius, St., M Oct. 7 

Serotina, St., M Dec. 31 

Servandus, St., M Oct. 23 

Servati'us, St., B May 13 

Servideus, St., Monk, 

M Jan. 13 

Servideus, St., M Sept. 16 

Servilian, St., M Apr. 20 

Servilius, St., M May 24 

S?rvulus, St., M Feb. 21 

Servulus, St Dec. 23 

Servus, St., M Dec. 7 

Servus, St., Subdeacon, 

M Aug. 17 

Seven Founders of Ser- 

vites of B. V. M Feb. 12 

Severa, St., V July 20 

Severian, St., M Jan. 23 

Severian, St., B., M...Feb. 21 

Severian, St., M Apr. 20 

Severian, St., Sol'r, M.Sept 9 

Severian, St., M Nov. 8 

Severin, St., A Jan. 8 

Severin, St., B Jan. 8 

Severin, St., A Feb. 11 

Severin, St., B June 8 

Severin, St., B., C Oct. 23 

Severin, St., Monk. . . .Nov. 1 
Severin, St., Monk, and 

Solitary Nov. 27 

Severin, St., B., C Dec. 21 

Severinus, St., M July 6 

Severinus, St., M Aug. 7 

Severinus, St., M Nov. 19 

Severus, St., M Jan. 11 

Severus, St., B Feb. 1 

Severus, St., Pr Feb. 15 

Severus, St., B Apr. 30 

Severus, St., Pr., C Aug. 8 

Severus, St., M Aug. 20 

Severus, St., Pr., C Oct. 1 

Severus, St., B., C Oct. 15 

Severus, St., Pr., M...Oct. 22 
Severus, St., B., M...NOV. 6 
Severus, St., M Nov. 8 



Severus, St., M Dec. 2 

Severus, St., M Dec. 30 

| Sextus, St., M Dec. 31 

Sidonius, St., B Aug. 23 

Sidronius, St., M July 11 

Sigisbert, St., C July 11 

Sigismund, St., King.. May 1 

Silas, St July 13 

Silvanus, St., B., M...Feb. 6 
Silvanus, St., B., C....Feb. 10 

Silvanus, St., M Feb. 18 

Silvanus, St., M Feb. 20 

Silvanus, St., B., M., and 

many clerics May 4 

Silvanus, St., M May 24 

Silvanus, St., M July 10 

Silvanus, St., Boy, M.Sept. 4 

Silvanus, St, M Nov. 5 

Silvanus, St., B Dec. 2 

Silverius, St., P., M...June 20 

Silvester, St., B Nov. 20 

Silvester, St., A Nov. 26 

Silvester, St., P Dec. 31 

Silvinus, St., B Feb. 17 

Silvinus, St., B Sept. 12 

Silvinus, St., B Sept. 28 

Silvius, St., M Apr. 21 

Simeon, St., Monk, 

called Stylites Jan. 5 

Simeon, St., B., M Feb. 18 

Simeon, St., Child, M..Mch. 24 
Simeon, St., B., M., and 

companions Apr. 21 

Simeon, St., Monk June 1 

Simeon, St., surnamed 

Salus, C July 1 

Simeon, St., Monk and 

Hermit July 26 

Simeon Stylites, the 

Younger, St Sept. 3 

Simeon, Old, St Oct. 8 

Similian, St., B., C...June 16 
Simitrius, St., Pr., M., 

and 22 others May 26 



INDEX. 



455 



Simon the Cananean, St., 
Apostle, M., birthday 

of Oct. 28 

Slmplician, St., B Aug. 16 

Siraplician, St., M Dec. 31 

Simplicius, St., P., C. .Mch. 2 
Simplicius, St., Senator, 
M., and wife and 68 

of family May 10 

Simplicius, St., B., M.May 15 
Simplicius, St., B., C..June 24 

Simplicius, St., M July 29 

Simplicius, St., M Aug. 26 

Simplicius, St., M Nov. 8 

Simplicius, St., B., C. .Nov. 20 

Simplicius, St., M Dec. 18 

Sindimius, St., M Dec. 19 

Sindulphus, St., C Oct. 20 j 

Sindulphus, St., B., C.Dec. 10 j 
Sirenus, St., Monk, M.Feb. 23 | 

Siricius, St., B., C Nov. 26 ! 

Siridion. St., B Jan. 2j 

Sisenandus, St., D., M.July 16 
Sisinius, St., D., M....May 11 

Sisinius, St., M May 29 ! 

Sisinius, St., M Nov. 23 

Sisinius, St., D., M.-.Nov. 2& j 

Siviard, St., A Mch. ] 

Sixtus, St., P., M Apr. 6 

Smaragdois, St., M Aug. 8 | 

Sobel. St., M Aug. 5| 

Socrates, St., M Apr. 19 

Socrates, St., M Sept. 17 j 

Solemnius, St., B Sept. 25 

Solochanus, St., Sold T r, 
M., and companions . May 17 

Solomon, St., M Mch. 13 

Solutor, St., M Nov. 13 

Solntor, St., Sold'r, M.Nov. 20 

Sopatra, St., V Nov. 9 

Sophia, St., V., M Apr. 30 

Sophia, St., M Sept. 18 

Sophia. St.. Widow. .. Sept. 30 
Sophonias. St., Prophet.Dec 3 

Sophronius, St., B Mch. 11 

Sophronius. St.. B Dec. 8 



Sosipater, St June 25 

Sosius, St., D., M Sept. 19 

Sosius, St., D., M Sept. 23 

Sostenseus, St., C May 8 

Sosthenes, St., M Sept. 10 

Sosthenes, St., M Nov. 28 

Soter, St., Prophet, M.Apr. 22 

Soteres, St., V., M Feb. 10 

Sozon, St., M Sept. < 

Speciosus, St., Monk.. Mch. 15 

Speratus, St., M July 17 

Speus, St., A Mch. 28 

Spenisippus, St., M Jan. 17 

Spiridion, St., B., C...Dec. 14 

Stachis, St., B Oct. 31 

Stacteus, St., M July 18 

Stacteus, St., M Sept. 28 

Stanislas, St., B., M..May 7 
Stanislas Kostka, St., 

C Aug. 15 

Stephen, St., A Feb. 8 

Stephen, St., A Feb. 13 

Stephen, St., B., C Feb. 13 

Stephen, St., M Apr. 1 

Stephen, St., A Apr. 17 

Stephen, St., B., M Apr. 25 

Stephen, St., M Apr. 27 

Stephen, St., P., M Aug. 2 

Stephen, St., A., M Aug. 6 

Stephen, St., Subdea- 

con, M Aug. 6 

Stephen, St., King Sept. 2 

Stephen, St., M Sept. 17 

Stephen, St., M Nov. 21 

Stephen, St., M Nov. 22 

Stephen, the Younger, 
St., Monk, M., and 

companions Nov. 28 

Stephen, St., M Dec. 3 

Stephen, St., First Mar- 
tyr, birthday of Dec. 26 

Stephen, St., M Dec. 31 

Stercatius, St., M July 24 

Straton, St., M Aug. 17 

Straton, St., M Sept. 9 

Straton, St., M Sept. 12 



456 



INDEX. 



Stratonicus, St., M Jan. 13 

Sturmius, St., A Dec. 17 

Stylian, St., Anchoret . Nov. 26 

Stryiaous, St., M Nov. 2 

Successus, St., M Jan. 19 

Successus, St., M Mch. 28 

Successus, St., M Apr. 16 

Successus, St., M Dec. 9 

Sulpicius, St., surnamed 

Pius Jan. 17 

Sulpicius, Severus, St., 

B Jan. 29 

S-ulpicius, St., M Apr. 20 

Superius, St., M June 26 

Suranus, St., A., Jan. 24 

Susanna, St., M., and 

children May 24 

Susanna, St., V., M...Aug. 11 

Susanna, St., M Sept. 20 

Swidbert, St., B Mch. 1 

Swithin, St., B July 2 

Syagrous, St., B., C...Aug. 27 

Sycus, St., M May 30 

Sylvanus, St Mch. 8 

Sylvanus, St., M May 5 

Sylvanois, St., M July 10 

Sylvanus, St., C Sept. 22 

Sylvia, St -..Nov. 3 

Symmachus, St., P July 19 

Symphorian, St, M...July 7 
Symphorian, St., M...Aug. 22 
Symphorian, St., M...NOV. 8 
Symphorosa, St., M . . . July 2 
Symphorosa, St., M . . . July 18 
Symphronius, St., M..Feb. 8 
Symphronius, St., M..July 26 
Symphronius, St., M..Oct. 31 

Syncletica, St Jan. 5 

Synesius, St., M May 21 

Synesius, St., Lector, 

M Dec. 12 

Syntyche, St July 22 

Syricius, St., M Feb. 21 

Syrus, St., B June 29 

Syrus, St., B Dec. 9 



T. 



Tammarus, St Sept. 1 

Tarbula, St., V., M., and 

her maid-servant... Apr. 22 

Tatian, St., M Sept. 12 

Tatiana, St., M Jan. 12 

Tatio, St., M . Aug. 24 

Tatta, St., M .-; Sept. 25 

Taurinus, St., B Aug. 11 

Taurio, St., M Nov. 7 

Telesphorus, St., P., M.Jan. 5 

Terence, St., M Sept 27 

Terentian, St., B., M..Sept 1 
Terentius, St., M., and 

companions Apr. 10 

Terentius, St, B., M..June 21 

Teresa, St., V Oct. 15 

Tertius, St., C Dec. 6 

Tertulla, St, V., M.... Apr. 29 
Tertullian, St., B., C..Apr. 27 
Tertullinus, St., Pr.,M.Aug. 4 
Thaddeus, St., also called 

Jude, Apostle, M., 

birthday of Oct. 28 

Thalalseus, St., M., and 

companions May 20 

Thalus, St., M Mch. 11 

Thamales, St., M., and 

companions Sept. 4 

Tharacus, St., M Oct. 11 

Tharasius, St., B Feb. 25 

Tharsicius, St, M Jan. 31 

Tharsicius, St.. Acolyte, 

M Aug. 15 

Tharsilla, St., V Dec. 24 

Thea, St., M Dec. 19 

Thecla, St., M Mch. 26 

Thecla, St, M Aug. 19 

Thecla, St Aug. 30 

Thecla, St., V., M Sept 3 

Thecla, St., V., M Sept 23 

Thecla. St., Abbess Oct. 15 

Thecusa, St., V., M...May 18 

Themistocles, St Dec. 21 

Theobold, St, Hermit. July 1 



INDEX. 



457 



Theoctistes, St., V Nov. 

Theodard, St., B., M..Sept. 

Theodora, St., M Mch. 

Theoderminis, St., 

Monk, M July 

Theodora, St., M Apr. 

Theodora, St., V., M..Apr. 
Theodora, St., V., M..May 

Theodora, St Sept. 

Theodora, St., Matron.Sept. 
Theodore, St., Monk.. Jan, 

Theodore, St., M Feb. 

Theodore, St., M Mch. 

Theodore, St., B., M..Mch. 

Theodore, St., C Apr. 

Theodore, St., B Apr. 

Theodore, St., B May 

Theodore, St., B May 

Theodore, St., B., C...July 

Theodore, St., M Jiily 

Theodore, St., M Sept. 

Theodore, St., M. ...Sept. 



10 1 Theodosius, St., A Jan. 11 

10 Theodosius, St., M...Mch. 26 



13 



Theodore, St., M. 
Theodore, St., M. 
Theodore, St., B. 
Theodore, St., M. 



. . Sept. 5 

..Sept. 15 

..Sept. 19 
and 



companions ....... Sept. 20 

Theodore, St., Pr Oct. 23 

Theodore, St., A Oct. 29 

Theodore, St., Sol'r, M.Nov. 9 
Theodore, Studita, St.. Nov. 12 
Theodore, St., B., M..Nov. 26 

Theodore, St., M Dec. 7 

Theodore, S., M Dec. 14 

Theodore, St., M Dec. 15 

Theodore, St., Mansion- 

ary Dec. 26 

Theodore, St., G Dec. 27 

Theodore, St., Monk.. Dec. 28 

Theodric, St., Pr July 1 

Theodorus, St., M Apr. 15 

Theodosia, St., M Mch. 20 

Theodosia, St., M Mch. 23 

Theodosia, St., V., M..Apr. 2 
Theodosia, St., M., and 

12 others May 29 



Theodosius, St., B July 17 

Theodosius, St., M Oct. 25 

Theodota, St., M July 17 

Theodota, St., M., and 

her 3 sons Aug. 2 

Theodotus, St., M Jan. 4 

Theodotus, St., B May 6 

Theodotus, St., M May 18 

Theodotus, St., M July 5 

Theodotus, St Aug. 31 

Theodotus, St., B Nov. 2 

Theodotus, St., M Nov. 14 

Theodulphus, St., B . . June 24 

Theodolus, St., M Feb. 17 

Theodolus, St., Pr....Mch. 23 
Theodolus, St., M., and 

companions Mch. 31 

Theodolus, St., Lector, 

.Apr. 4 



M. 



Theodolus, St., M May 2 

Theodolus, St., Pr., M.May 3 

Theodolus, St., M June 18 

Theodolus, St., M July 26 

Theodolnis, St., M Sept. 12 

Theodolus, St., M Oct. 31 

Theodolus, St., M Dec. 23 

Theogenes, St., M Jan. 3 

Theogenes, St., B., M., 

and 36 others Jan. 26 

Theogonius, St., M Aug. 21 

Theonas, St., M Jan. 3 

Theonas, St., M Apr. 20 

Theonas, St., B., C...Aug. 23 
Theonestus, St., B., M.Oct. 30 

Theonilla, St., M Aug. 23 

Theopemptus, St., M..Jan. 3 
Theophanes, St., Monk, 

M Mch. 12 

Theophanes, St., M., and 

companions Dec. 4 

Theophanes, St., B., C.Dec. 27 
Theophila, St., V., M..Dec. 28 
Theophilus, St., D., M.Jan. 8 
Theophilus, St., M Feb. 6 



458 



INDEX. 



Theophilus, St., M....Feb. 28 

Theophilus, St., B Mch. 5 

Theophilus, St., B Mch. 7 

Theophilus, St., B Apr. 27 

Theophilus, St., Pretor, 

M July 22 

Theophilus, St., M July 23 

Theophilus, St., M...Sept. 8 
Theophilus, St.,Monk,M.Oct. 2 

Theophilus, St., B Oct. 13 

Theophilus, St., M Nov. 3 

Theophilus, St., Soldier, 

M Dec. 20 

Theopistes, St., M Sept. 20 

Theopistus, St., M...Sept. 20 
Theopumpus, S., M...May 21 
Theoprepides, St., M.Mch. 27 
Theoticus, St., M., and 

others Mch. 8 

Theotimos, St., M Nov. 5 

Theotimus, St., B.... .Apr. 20 

Theotimus, St., M Dec. 18 

Theotimus, St., M Dec. 24 

Thespesius, St., M Joine 1 

Thespesius, St., M Nov. 20 

Thessalonica, St., M..Nov. 7 

Theuseta, St., M Mch. 13 

Thief, Good, on the Cross, 

commem. of Mch. 25 

Thomaides, St., M Apr. 14 

Thomas of Aquino, St., 

C. and Doctor Mch. 7 

Thomas of Villanova, 

St., Archbishop, C..Sept. 22 

Thomas, St., B., C Oct. 2 

Thomas, St., Monk... Nov. 18 
Thomas, St., Apostle, M., 

birthday of Dec. 21 

Thomas, St., B., M Dec. 29 

Thraseas, St., B., M...Oct. 5 

Thrason, St., M. Dec. 11 

Thryphosa, St Nov. 10 

Thrysus, St., M Jan. 24 

Thyrsus, St., M Jan. 28 

Thyrsus, St., M Jan. 31 

Thyrsus, St., D., M...Sept. 24 



Tiberius, St., M Nov. 10 

Tiburtius, St., M Apr. 14 

Tiburtius, St., M May 25 

Tiburtius, St., M Aug. 11 

Tiburtius, St., M Sept. 9 

Tiburtius, St., M Nov. 22 

Tigides, St., B Feb. 3 

Timolaus, St., M Mch. 24 

Timon, St., D., M Apr. 19 

Timothy, St., B., M...Jan. 24 

Timothy, St., M Mch. 24 

Timothy, St., M Apr. 6 

Timothy, St., M May 3 

Timothy, St., D., M...May 21 

Timothy, St., M May 22 

Timothy, St., B., M..June 10 

Timothy, St., M Aug. 19 

Timothy, St., M Aug. 22 

Timothy, St., M Aug. 23 

Timothy, St., M Sept. 8 

Timothy, St., D., M...Dec. 19 

Titian, St., B., C Jan. 16 

Titian, St., B., C Mch. 3 

Titus, St., B Jan. 4 

Titus, St., B., C Feb. 6 

Titus, St., D., M Aug. 16 

Tobias, St., M Nov. 2 

Torpes, St., M May 17 

Torqoiatus, St., B May 15 

Totnan, St., D., M July 8 

Tranquillinus, St., M..July 6 
Transfiguration of Our 

Lord Aug. 6 

Triphenes, St., M Jan. 31 

Triphina, St., M July 5 

Triphyllius, St., B....June 13 

Tripos, St., M June 10 

Troadius, St., M Dec. 28 

Trojanus, St., B Nov. 30 

Tron, St., B., C Nov. 23 

Trophimus, St., M Mch. 11 

Trophimus, St., M Mch. 18 

Trophimius, St., M July 23 

Trophimus, St., M....Sept. 19 

Trophimus, St., B Dec. 29 

Tryphenna, St Nov. 10 



INDEX. 



459 



Tryphon, St., M Jan. 4 

Tryphon, St., M., and 

12 others July 3 

Tryphon, St., M Nov. 10 

Tryphonia, St Oct. 18 

Turian, St., B., C July 13 

Turibius, St., Arch- 
bishop Mch. 23 

Turibius, St., B Apr. 16 

Tychicus, St Apr. 29 

Tychon, St., B June 16 

Tygrius, St., Pr., M...Jan. 12 
Tyrannic, St., B., M., 

and many others Feb. 20 

U. 

Ubaldus, St., B May 16 

Uguccia, St., C May 3 

Uldaric, St., B July 4 

Urban, St., B Apr. 2 

Urban, St., P., M May 25 

Urban, St., B Nov. 28 

Urban, St., B., C Dec. 7 

Urban II, St., P Aug. 19 

Urban V., St., P Dec. 19 

Urbanus, St., M Jan. 24 

Urbanus, St. .- Mch. 8 

Urbanus, St., M Apr. 16 

Urbanus, St., M July 2 

Urbanus, St., M., and 

companions Sept. 5 

Urbanus, St., M Oct. 31 

Urciscenus, St., B., C.June 21 

Ursicinus, St., M June 19 

Ursicinus, St., B., C. . .July 24 

Ursicius, St., M Aug. 14 

Ursinus, St., O Nov. 9 

Ursmar, St., B Apr. 19 

Ursula, St., V., M., and 

companions Oct. 21 

Ursus, St., B., O Apr. 13 

Ursus, St., B., C July 30 

Ursus, St., Sold'r, M.Sept. 30 
Usthazanes, St., King's 

tutor, M Apr. 21 



V. 

Valens, St., B., M., and 

3 boys May 21 

Valens, St., D., M June 1 

Valens, St., B., C July 26 

Valentina, St., V., M., 

and companions July 25 

Valentine, St., B., M..Feb. 14 
Valentine, St., Pr., M.Feb. 14 
Valentine, St., B., M..July 16 
Valentine, St., B., C...Oct. 29 
Valentine, St., Pr., M. .Nov. 3 

Valentine, St., M Nov. 11 

Valentine, St., M Nov. 13 

Valentine, St., Military 

Officer, M Dec. 16 

Valentio, St., M May 25 

Valeria, St., M Apr. 28 

Valeria, St., M June 5 

Valeria, St., V., M....Dec. 9 

Valerian, St., M Apr. 14 

Valerian, St., M May 25 

Valerian, St., M Aug. 23 

Valerian, St., M Sept. 12 

Valerian, St., M Sept. 15 

Valerian, St., M Sept. 17 

Valerian, St., M Nov. 22 

Valerian, St., B Nov. 27 

Valerian, St., B Nov. 28 

Valerian, St., B., M...Dec. 15 

Valerius, St., B Jan. 28 

Valerias, St., B Jan. 29 

Valerius, St., M June 14 

Valerius, St., M., and 

companions Nov. 16 

Valery, St., A Apr. 1 

Vandrille, St., A July 22 

Varicus, St., M Nov. 15 

Varus, St., Soldier, M.Oct. 19 

Vedastus, St., M Feb. 6 

Venantius, St., M., and 

10 others May 18 

Venantius, St., A., C..Oct. 13 
Venatius, St., B., M...Apr. 1 
Veneranda, St., V., M.Nov. 14 



460 



INDEX. 



Venerandus, St., M...NOV. 14 

Venerius, St., B May 4 

Venerius, St., C Sept. 13 

Venustian, St., M., and 

wife and sons Dec. 30 

Venustus, St., M May 6 1 

Venustus, St., M May 22 j 

Veranus, St., B Oct. 19 

Veranus, St., B Nov. 11 

Verecundus, St., B., C.Oct. 22 

Verena, St., V Sept. 1 

Verian, St., M Aug. 9 

Veridiana, St., V Feb. 1 

Verissimus., St., M....Oct. 1 
Veronica of Binasco, 

St., V Jan. 13 

Veronica Giuliani, St., 

Abbess, V July 9 

Verulus, St., M., and 

others Feb. 21 

Verus, St., B Aug. 1 

Verus, St., B Oct. 23 

Vestina, St., M July 17 

Vetuis, St., M June 2 

Veturius, St., M July 17 

Viator, St., Lector Sept. 2 

Viator, St., D Oct. 21 

Viator, St., B., C Dec. 14 

Victor, St. M Jan. 22 

Victor, St., M Jan. 31 

Victor, St., M Feb. 25 

Victor, St., C Feb. 26 

Victor, St., M Men. 6 

Victor, St., M Men. 10 

Victor, St., a Samari- 
tan, M Mch. 20 

Victor, St., M Mch. 30 

Victor, St., M Apr. 1 

Victor, St., M Apr. 12 

Victor, St., M Apr. 20 

Victor, St., M May 8 

Victor, St., M May 14 

Victor, St., M May 17 

Victor, St., Soldier, 

M July 21 



Victor, St., Military 

Man, M July 24 

Victor, St., P., M July 28 

Victor, St., B Aug. 23 

Victor, St., M Aug. 26 

Victor, St., M Sept. 10 

Victor, St., M Sept. 10 

Victor, St., M Sept. 14 

Victor, St., M Sept. 22 

Victor, St., Sold'r, M.Sept. 30 
Victor, St., M., and his 

companions Oct. 10 

Victor III, St., P Oct. 16 

Victor, St., M Oct. 17 

Victor, St., B Oct. 17 

Victor, St., M Nov. 2 

Victor, St., M Nov. 13 

Victor, St., M Dec. 3 

Victor, St., M Dec. 15 

Victor, St., M Dec. 18 

Victor, St., M Dec. 28 

Victor, St., M Dec. 29 

Victoria, St., M Nov. 37 

Victoria, St., V., M...Dec. 23 
Victorian, Pro-Counsul. 

M., and 2 brothers) Mch. 23 

Victorian, St., M May 15 

Victorian, St., M Aug. 26 

Victoricus, St., M Dec. 11 

Victorinus, St., M Jan. 8 

Victorinus, St., M Feb. 25 

Victorinus, St., M Mch. 6 

Victorinus, St., M....Mch. 29 

Victorinus, St., M Apr. 15 

Victorinus, St., M May 15 

Victorinus, St., C June 8 

Victorinus, St., M....July 7 
Victorinus, St., B., M.Sept. 5 

Victorinus, St., M Oct. 5 

Victorinus, St., B., M.Nov. 2 

Victorinus, St., M Nov. 8 

Victorinus, St., M....Nov. 11 
Victorinus, St., M....Dec. 2 

Victorinus, St., M Dec. 18 

Victorius, St., M Feb. 24 

Victorius, St., M May 21 



INDEX. 



461 



Victorius, St., B Sept. 1 

Victricius, St., Soldier, 

B., C Aug. 7 

Victorius, St., M Oct. 30 

Victurus, St., M., and 

others Dec. 18 

Vigilius, St., B., M....June 26 

Vigilius, St., B Sept. 26 

Vigor, St., B Nov. 1 

Vincent, St., D., M Jan. 22 

Vincent, St., M Jan. 22 

Vincent, St., M Jan. 27 

Vincent Ferrer, St., C.Apr. 5 

Vincent, St., M Apr. 19 

Vincent, St., M May 24 

Vincent, St., Pr May 24 

Vincent, St., D., M...June 9 
Vincent de Paul, St., 

Pr., C., festival of.. July 19 

Vincent, St., M July 24 

Vincent, St., Subdeacon, 

M Aug. 6 

Vincent, St., M Aug. 25 

Vincent, St., M Sept. 1 

Vincent, St., A., M...Sept. 11 
Vincent de Paoil, St., 

Pr., C Sept. 27 

Vincent, St., M Oct. 27 

Vindemial, St., B., M. .May 2 

Vindonius, St Sept. 1 

Virgilius, St., B Nov. 27 

Visitation of the B. V. 

Mary to Elizabeth. .July 2 

Visia, St., V., M Apr. 12 

VStalian, St., P Jan. 27 

Vitalicus, St., Boy, M.Sept. 4 

Vitalis, St, M Jan. 9 

Vitalis, St., M Jan. 9 

Vitalis, St., M Feb. 14 

Vitalis, St., M Apr. 21 

Vitalis, St., M Apr. 28 

Vitalis, St., M July 2 

Vitalis, St., M July 10 

Vitalis, St., M Sept. 22 

Vitalis, St., M Nov. 3 

Vitalis, St., M Nov. 4 



Vitus, St., M June 15 

Viventiolus. St., B July 12 

Viventius. St., C Jan. 13 

Vivian, St., B., C Ang. 28 

Vivina, St., V Dec. 17 

Volusian, St., B Jan. 18 

Vulpian, St., M Apr. 3 

W. 

Walburge, St., V May 1 

Wallabonsus, St., D., 

M June 7 

Waltrude, St Apr. 9 

Wenceslas, St., Duke, 

M Sept. 28 

Wigbert, St., Pr., C...Aug. 13 

Wilfrid, St., B., C Oct. 12 

Wilgefortes, St., V., M.July 20 

Willehad, St., B Nov. 8 

William, St., Arch- 
bishop, C Jan. 10 

William, St., Hermit. Feb. 10 

William, St., A Apr. 6 

William, St., Arch- 
bishop, C June 8 

William, St., C June 25 

William, St., B., C July 29 

Willibald, St., B July 7 

Willibrod, St., B Nov. 7 

Winefride, St., V., M..Nov. 3 

Winoc, St., A Nov. 6 

Wiro, St., B May 8 

Wistremundus, St., 

Monk, M June 7 

Wolfgang, St., B Oct. 31 

W-ulfran, St., B Mch. 20 

Wulmar, St., A July 20 

Wulstan, St., B., O Jan. 19 



Xantippa, St Sept. 23 

Xystus III, St., P., O.Mch. 28 
Xystus II, St., P., M. .Aug. 6 
Xystus, St., M Sept. 1 



46! 



INDEX. 



Z. 



Zacchseus, St., M Nov. 17 

Zachseus, St., B Aug. 23 

Zachary, St., P Mch. 15 

Zachary, St., B., M...May 26 

Zachary, St., M June 10 

Zachary, St., Prophet . Sept. 6 
Zachaory, St., Pr., and 

Prophet Nov. 5 

Zamas, St., B Jan. 24 

Zambdas, St., B Feb. 19 

Zanitas, St., M., and 

others Mch. 27 

Zebina, St., M Nov. 13 

Zenaides, St., M June 5 

Zenaides, St Oct. 11 

Zenas, St.,Servant,M. . June 23 

Zeno, St., M Feb. 14 

,Zeno, St., M Apr. 5 

Zeno, St., B., M Apr. 12 

Zeno, St., M Apr. 20 

Zeus, St., M June 23 

Zeno, St., M., and 10,203 

others July 9 

Zeno, St., M July 15 

Zeno, St., M Sept. 2 

Zeno, St., M Sept. 3 

Zeno, St., Soldier, M . . Sept. 5 

Zeno, St, M Sept. 8 

Zeno, St., B Dec. 8 

Zeno, St., Soldier, M..Dec. 20 
Zeno, St., Soldier, M..Dec. 22 
Zeno, St., B Dec. 26 



Zenobia, St., M Oct. 30 

Zenobius, St., Pr., M..Feb. 20 

Zenobius, St., B May 25 

Zenobius, St., Pr., M..Oct. 29 
Zenobius. St., B., M...Oct. 30 

Zenobius, St., M Dec. 24 

Zephirinus, St., P., M.Aug. 26 

Zeticus, St., M Dec. 23 

Zita, St., V Apr. 27 

Zoa, St., M July 5 

Zoe, St., M May 2 

Zoellus, St., M May 24 

Zoilus, St., M., and 19 

others June 27 

Zosima, St., M July 15 

Zosimois, St., M Mch. 11 

Zosimus, St., B., C Mch. 30 

Zosimus, St., Anchoret.Apr. 4 

Zosimus, St., M June 19 

Zosimus, St., M Sept. 28 

Zosimus, St., C Nov. 30 

Zosimus, St., M Dec. 14 

Zosimus, St., M Dec. 18 

Zosimus, St., M Dec. 19 

Zosimus, St., Pi, C Dec. 26 

Zoticus, St., M Jan. 12 

Zoticus, St., M Jan. 12 

Zoticus, St., M Jan. 31 

Zoticus, St., M Feb. 10 

Zoticus, St., M Apr. 20 

Zotious, St., B., M July 21 

Zoticus, St., M Aug. 22 

Zoticus, St., Sold'r, M.Oct. 21 

Zoticus, St., Pr Dec. 31 

Zozimus, St., M Jan. 3 


